Homosexuality abortion and what your body and all of those things have in common what's up sisterhood it's bethany here and i am kind of freaking out because i. I'm so excited that i had the opportunity to interview professor piercy you're going to learn a lot about her as we get into this but professor nancy pearcey is someone who i admire and respect so much i have heard many of her interviews i've read her book love thy body but i never thought i would actually get the chance to chat with her so she is such a great godly woman who has done a ton of research and has done all the work to unpack these huge issues of homosexuality transgenderism abortion hook up culture things that are. Like in our culture in our faces right now whether it's something you're dealing with or someone you know that's dealing with one of those things or. Just curiosity of how to approach and talk about these things in a biblical way she is going to give us just incredible help and hope and direction with these topics so you're you know you're going to want to share this with your friends for sure this is. You know a conversation that many of us can feel scared to have intimidated to have almost like this is. Off-limits to have in many ways but it's not and the bible has answers and god's design for our lives brings so much clarity before we jump into that conversation though i just want to make sure. That you are coming or planning to come to the 2021 girl define conference so if you are coming or planning to come that's just like the same thing if you are not registered yet they're still a little bit of time so you are going to want to go to girl to find calm slash conference and make sure that you are either registered for the online simulcast live stream or the in-person event in san antonio texas on july 30th and 31st both on the simulcast obviously and in her having at the same time but the reason i want to encourage you to come is because. That comes from christ that we as young women and women need to know where you know who. Who are god is we need to know him personally we need to know who has designed us who has created us who has made us as women as females that is uniquely different from men we need to know how we can live that out to honor and glorify god with our unique design and with our unique lives really and so if you want to learn more about your identity in christ if you want to learn how to be bold and courageous and to shine bright not for your own glory but to point others to christ through his strength within you that i encourage you to go to girl to find slash dot conference to grab your tickets today and. No a little bit of a personal note when professor piercy and i went to record this session this session this podcast we had like. 8 bill. Technical issues and i was literally after like 20 minutes i was like i don't even know if we're going to get to record this. This is such a bummer i'm so disappointed. And so we just had a ton of issues at first getting her audio to work and then after her audio started working it was just super glitchy for some reason and so we just prayed beforehand and we were like god please just let it at least work so. We did the best we could to make the audio as great as possible that towards the end it started to get a little bit glitchy but. You know this was such an important conversation and the opportunity to get to talk to her again wouldn't have been for a little while so i you know hopefully one day we can have another conversation and go more in-depth but this conversation is so crucial that i was like you know even if the audio was a little glitchy we have to get this to you because it is absolutely necessary. Super easy to listen to it's just amazing like i think it should be. So we're going to jump into that conversation but just please have some grace as you listen to the audio knowing that we are. And i'm just i'm so grateful that it even recorded because it was literally like a small name so thank you for your grace and patience and if you like the content you're like wow this is some good content and i want more of this on the girl to find show. Make sure you leave a 5-star review like seriously pause it go go go go right now do it right now. Quick dot five star button and even write up a review so that we know why you like the show what you like about it and so we can make it even more tailored for you all right let's jump into the conversation with professor at nancy piercy thank you nancy so much for being here i am honored and i know our sisterhood over at girl to find is honored as well just to get to hear your wisdom but for those who haven't heard of you or don't know you can you just give us a quick introduction yeah so professor of cultural apologetics houston university. And and that means i get to teach young people arguments for god's existence all day long can you think of a better job i can't. All i ever talk about is you know why the christian worldview is true. Superior to any non-christian worldview. And how it gives us a better road map to life. I was just telling a student the other day. Because if something is really true it will in fact work out better. That's what we want to convey is that christianity actually fits reality. And i'll give you the illustration that i gave that student it was a book couple years ago. Interesting thing is he started out to write a book on why you don't need religion to have a good life to have a moral compass. Started out he called himself a secular humanist. And he started out to write a book on why you don't need god to be good and have a good life. But when he's read the literature the literature from psychology today is overwhelmingly in favor of. Showing. If you are a committed christian. You have better. Better mental health less depression less anxiety better relationships. Between parents and children. And you even have better physical health this was a real shock. If you know not having depression anxiety and you left likely to have. Alcoholism. Drug addictions and so on. They found that christians actually live longer. They have lower mortality rate. So anyway he he. Secular humanist as he defined himself. Turn 180 degrees around and instead of writing a book on how we don't need religion he actually wrote a book called why america needs religion. Maybe an hour or so that's just amazing now you the books that i have i have several of your books but the one that i really want to hone in and talk about today is your book love that body which i strongly recommend everyone to read i think it should be a required reading for every one of our listeners but that you know it was kind of the direction we're going to take today you are a wealth of information and you know i wish we could have 10 podcasts recording with you because you're just amazing but can you tell us a little bit about this book love thy body and why you chose to write it. Yeah i wanted to equip christians to answer some of the cutting edge moral issues of our day. You know most of my books have been about how we can show that christianity is true. But people aren't asking anymore. Is christianity true they're asking. Why are christians such big. The conversation has shifted and said i felt like i had to write a book on what you might call moral apologetics in other words how do we share christianity is true in regard to these. Cutting edge moral issues like abortion. Euthanasia homosexuality transgenderism the hookup culture. Those are the five areas in fact that i deal with and so i wanted to give. Christian's better tools to answer the secular challenges of our day on these moral issues and to show that. It's not it's it's it's actually christianity we can turn the tables it's actually christianity that has a higher view of the body and sexuality. 90 secular view does and it's time for us to go on the offensive in a sense in a positive way. Showing that christianity has much better answers. Done anything on offer in the secular world. Yeah and i know everyone's thinking like okay well prove it what does that mean and we're going to get into that that's the entire purpose of this. Episode but really quickly can you clarify because you named several different you know homosexuality abortion transgenderism hookup culture and there's so many different things. That you mentioned in your book and that you just mentioned personally and. It kind of seems like okay this is such a wide such a different diverse set of issues but somehow they come together in your book can you explain how that is. Yes i know that was one of the most interesting and surprising. Aspects of my book love thy body you know i'd like to jump in with a an example because it's easier to see with something very concrete. And let's take the cutting edge issue of our day which is transgenderism it is the temperature of the movement. Is growing in leaps and bones. So how do christians respond to it. Actually has a very negative. Treatment of the body. Gender identity has nothing to do with your biological sex that your biological thoughts your body is irrelevant and insignificant and tells you nothing about who you are. Bbc documentary says at the heart of the debate. Is the idea that your mind can be at war with your body. But that's incredible internal alienation. So as a result kids down to kindergarten today are being told. That their body is not part of the authentic self. It was a news item a couple weeks ago. A first grader. A first grade girl came home from school. I told her mother that her teacher was telling them that just because you just because you have girl parts doesn't mean you're a girl. She literally said please take me to a doctor so we can find out what i am. For emotional distress. But that's an illustration of how. Down to kindergarten first grade kids are being taught. That your body has nothing to do with who you are and how should we respond to that as christians. We should respond by saying why. Such an extreme devaluation. And even secular people are figuring this out i recently read an interview. With a 14 year old girl. And she had lived as a trans boy for 3 years she had transitioned at age 11. And then at age 14 recovered identity as a girl. And she said the turning point came and this is a direct quote. When i the turning point came when quote i realized it's not conversion therapy. To learn to love your body. Unfortunately this interview came out after my book was already published. But this interview was on a very secular liberal website and so what it shows us is that even secular people are starting. The issue here is your view of the body and that transgenderism denigrates and devalues the body in fact secular people are starting to say. Does transgender movement represents body hatred is that that terminal bloody hatred. More than ever. The chance movement has really highlighted that the issue is do we value the body or not. Were you anticipating where the culture was going or was this just a passion of yours and you didn't even realize how extreme things would become. Oh that's a very good question because people people often put it this way they'll say where do you think we're going next. It's a long-term trend and that's why as you mentioned a moment ago. You see the same issue. With abortion euthanasia. Homosexuality and so on like let's let's back up to the homosexuality which was the previous you know big. Movement. Homosexuality likewise represents a denigration. Of the body. Well if you if i talk to my homosexual friends. That on the level of biology. Physiology. Anatomy chromosomes and so on. Another words on the level of biology males and females are counterparts counterparts to one another. But that's how the human sexual and reproductive system is designed. To embrace a same. Identity then. Is implicitly to contradict that design. Why should my body. Inform my identity. But why should my biological sex as male or female. Have any say in my moral choices. So what we have to help people to see is it that that is a profoundly disrespectful view of the body. Eternal self alienation and fragmentation. And so i'll give you just one on homosexuality this is a young woman. Who lived as a lesbian for many years. And today is married. Married to a man. You have to say that yes no man and has three two children two. But she wrote an article in which she said. So what was the turning point for her. She said. I came to trust. And i decided to honor my body. Creative design. After that is when she began to so she put it to my great surprise i felt a flicker of heterosexual desire. It was. I wanted to honor my body. I live in accord with a creative design. How to change our language. The stereotypes about christians are that we use negative language it's a sin it's wrong it's against the bible. And something's wrong with you. The whole point of this is honoring your body living in harmony with your biological sex respecting who god made you to be. Taking identity. From your body instead of your sexual feelings actually that's a that's another quote so let me give you that one another anecdote. Does the young man named sean who had been exclusively. Attracted from the time it is quite young. The interesting thing about his story. Is that he grew up in a gay affirming family and attended a gay affirming. So again his his change was not driven by. Shame or guilt either. By the way he's now married and to a woman. And has three kids. Wow what is an ethics professor a christian ethics professor in london. But here's how he explained his turnaround he said. I stopped. Taking my identity from my sexual feelings. And started. Taking my identity i said i didn't try to change my feelings you know cuz that doesn't usually work yeah but i started taking my identity from my body because your feelings can change but your body he said he put it except in my body as a good gift from god. And then my feelings started to fall asleep and so that's really the worldview question that's at the heart of this debate. Cosmos. Operating by blind material forces in which case your body has no intrinsic. Universe a cosmos designed by a loving creator. And therefore our body is a good gift. Creation is good it has an intrinsic purpose. And the goal is to live in harmony with that purpose. The number one thing that comes to my mind is what i'm often told myself like a special on social media direct messages i'll get and it's typically from people saying you know well if god is loving then you know he would accept and approve of this lifestyle because he wouldn't make me you know a girl on the inside and a boy on the outside just to say that's not possible you know so what do you say to the person i know this fits in right with everything you just said but what do you say to maybe the young woman who's listening who is saying well my body it is a girl but on the inside i'm a boy and a lot of god wouldn't do this so it's okay for me to change my body to reflect the inside does that make sense. Yeah oh yeah i hear it all the time. In love a body i tell the story of a young boy named brandon. Who had gender dysphoria from bavaria young age. Before he was even walking while he was still just crawling. His babysitter said to his mom. He's too good to be a boy. By which she meant he's he's sweet and compliant and gentle and the things we normally associate with girls. In preschool when his parents picked him up. I'm not the boys. By elementary school he was coming to his parents weeping. Repeatedly. I'm saying. I think the way girls do i feel the way girls do god should have made me a girl. This is very hard for him and for his parents. Gender dysphoria is very painful. It is a very painful disconnect between your body and your mind and your feelings. By age 14 he was scouring the internet for information on. The assignment surgery. So what did his parents do. First of all. Then make sure he knew. They loved him just the way he was. I have had. When i was in seminary i had. A friend who was a former homosexual and he said when i was when i was young i liked you know music and poetry. Pushing me into more masculine. Things like sports. It is important to start with they did not do that. Make. It's perfectly okay. To be a sensitive gentle relational. So that was really important you never felt like you know he was rejected by his parents. Personality test. Where it's clear that a boy can be at either end of the spectrum. Get it done. Brandon's parents kept telling him. It's not you that's wrong it's a stereotypes that are wrong. And you do not need to live your life by cultural stereotypes they even took them through history. I showed him how. Concepts of masculinity and femininity have changed over history. Chapter 12. You do not have to live according to current stereotypes they change their historically contingent. You find out who god made you. And you live that way and you don't worry about whether it fits the masculine stereotypes. Or if it was a girl i would say you know don't worry if it doesn't fit the feminine stereotypes oh my goodness. Gifts of the spirit. You know prophecy and teaching are not masculine as you and i might expect. Feminine. Because the bible says that. The spirit divides them out individually as he chooses. Individually not buy. You know sex categories. So it it took it took me a long time cuz this was gender this was true gender dysphoria. And pizza. What is he now he's about 25 now and he has you know reconciled himself to his biological sex. He just knows if he's still kind of an outlier on that on that myers briggs personality test he is way over here on the emotional gentle side but he is a boy. In terms of the biology. Your feelings change and often do. There are lots and lots of growing numbers of detransitioners today people who feel like they were misled people who feel like they. The transitioning like the girl i told you about who was identified as a boy at age 11 and at 14 she did transitioned back to a girl wow. And it. Supreme court case in england. They call their supreme court the high court. Just adjudicated a case. A young woman she's 23 years old. Only 23 now. Her name is kira belle. Keira carrabelle. And she went to the largest gender clinic in england which is called tavistock went to the largest dental clinic and she thought she was a boy. You know without. Probing any for mental health issues you know like 30 minutes 30 minutes. Congratulations you really a boy. She knows us if she took his case to court and she said they did not probe any of my psychological issues. I definitely had psychological issues that needed to be addressed as a. A study done. Brown university. And it was specifically girls who. The study was done on girls who had not shown any sign of gender dysphoria when they were young. This is a growing demographic right now is girls who sing perfectly happy being girls. For the first time feeling like i'm really a boy inside. Because it's not the traditional gender dysphoria has always started at a young age. Cases of. Girls with gender dysphoria it's pretty flat and then suddenly go through the steep cliff you know. And she found the researcher there. Her name is lisa lip. Found that 63%. Onset gender dysphoria girls. At 63%. Had at least one mental or psychological health issue before. They felt any sense of gender dysphoria he had already been diagnosed so that would include. Anxiety depression. Self-harm like cutting. Ocd. Autism. I think there's one or two more but autism by the way was the most common people who have been a robust correlation between autism. And transgenderism or as it used to be called transsexualism for a long time nobody is quite sure what but the point is that these young girls was so. Distress. You demographic you know that teenagers. Often have some anxiety and depression. But these were girls what was severe enough that their parents are actually taking them to a psychologist. And had it diagnosed. Before the onset of the agenda dysphoria so the thing to keep in mind is these are very. Troubled girls. And i got something we need to keep in mind when we talk to them is. Many of them have other psychological issues going on oh i should tell you that the. The punchline to the story about the british high court if she won wow. 23 year old girl. Check on the supreme court. Dental clinics are not allowed. To give puberty blockers cause sex hormones or surgery to children 16 years or younger. That's amazing. So in england now and it was one girl. One girl took on the supreme court and has now won. This ruling. Allowed. Do you have a court order in order to give. Call 611-6332. I was really an eye opener to talk to the parents. And very frequently that their stories were things like yeah my you know my daughter went to a gender clinic. Spent 30 minutes. And was told. Congratulations you're a boy that was from one of my parents and she said you know. They they're not they're not looking at whether. Kids have any sort of psychological issue. It's bad it's just bad healthcare yeah. Moral issues aside for sure. It's just bad health care practice. So why do you think nancy that is so many. You know genuinely loving parents genuine you know just people who they're like okay you know i'm not trying to be extreme but are just. Going full like head-on with this whole movement is kind of what i want to call it where. The extreme of. Altering your body and making permanent lifelong decisions why are you know loving parents and even you know loving teachers were loving doctors why are they just so 100% on board with this whole movement. Because madison has been politicized. Medical people are becoming activist. Betty parrots are afraid. The parasite talked to had no idea going into it they had look. I feel special badly for. They have no alternative. Perspective. Perspective to look at the cultural message and say is this true or isn't it. Answer questions do have a bit of a protection that way. So they do nothing except for the culture was telling them. And they would take they would do what they thought was the right thing to do they take their kid to a gender clinic. Add dental clinics. Human rights issue is. The current human rights issues used to be homosexuality now the human rights issue is transgenderism and so. It's just it's to be against. Transgender. Is to be a transphobe just like. You know if you disagreed with the homosexual agenda you are a homophobe. And so. If you don't have any alternative sense of truth you know alternative source. Of ideas. You have no you just have no. All all of the parents i talk. Thought the gender clinic would be on their side. They thought the gender clinicians would say. Well slow down you know have you thought this through. Have you considered. Got your feelings might change you know that your hormones change. 13 years and so your feelings can change. You know most as you probably know you sound like you've researched this song. Most young people do. Outgrow so to speak their gender dysphoria. Where is especially during puberty you know when your hormones change. Depending on the study 80 to 95%. A people. Young people with gender dysphoria. Do come to. At ease again with their biological sex. Toxic. Chemical. To young people and and. When in many cases it's not necessary you leave them alone and let them go through puberty they will in fact 80 to 90% will in fact. Blue's clues and they had the drag queen you know out there singing about all the different things you could be and i grew up watching blue's clues and so i was thinking back you know like wow. How different would it be if i grew up or at least i wearing right now and i was just hearing over and over again almost how it's the better option and you are even more celebrated if you can be anything other than just who you are right now so i the pressure seems really intense but i love that you brought out like how being a christian you have hope and there's there's another option where if you don't you're not a christian and you don't have that other hope it's like well i guess this is the best option i think a way to help our listeners better understand that is to kind of i guess if you could unpack the concept of the the personhood theory where there's that split between the person and the body i found that very fascinating and very helpful to better understand. You know why that split isn't helpful could you unpack that for a listeners and just explain that for those who haven't heard of personhood theory and and what that is. Yeah it is in a sense of have been talking about when we say the transgender activist say. Your identity has nothing to do with your body that implying that there's some kind of split yeah between your body. Completely separate. I'm the same with homosexuality but it really took root first. In a secular world with abortion. The same split between the body and the person. Is presumed by secular bioethicist. But if you read the professional bioethicist. For a long time they've been saying. Well yeah the fetus is human from the moment of conception. The science dna genetics is just too strong to deny it. So you do not find any secular biologist who deny. And then you say in that case how do they. And the answer is they'll say well. Biologically. The fetus is human. But it doesn't become a person until sometime later. And a person is usually defined by mental abilities but you know by what's in your head you see it's just like transgenderism because you're defined by what's in your head not your body. But what they say about abortion is you could be. Human up until some point of development. And then suddenly you jump into this other category. Based on self-awareness. Cognitive ability and so on. Of course the problem is. If personhood. Is being a person is completely separate from biology then how do you define it you know is it. Which cognitive abilities do you have to develop and how developed do they have to be. Play all disagree. They all draw the line at a different place. The creek and watson. Francis creek. James watson they were the discoverers of the double helix structure of dna and they both come out saying we need to give parents 3 days. Tell rhonda child to a series of genetic testing. And only then do we call it a person. The rationale being that some birth defects don't show up until after birth. A very high-level person he's a bioethicist at princeton university. I said well. Even at 3 years of age. Person who is a gray area. Cognitive function does a total of does a toddler have. So that's where we are now by by separating biology from personhood. Bioethicist now say what sure you're human. But you don't have the rights and. Status and moral status of a person until sometime later. And of course what that means is. No none of us have human rights anymore. Being human. Is no longer enough for human rights. Has decided that you have the requisite. Cognitive functioning you don't have to earn the right. But now you have to earn human rights. By achieving a certain level of cognitive functioning. So that's the split and obviously if you human at once if the fetus is human at one stage but not a person until sometime later. But clearly there's a two separate things. First had. I have had some people have a hard time with this because it's like i'll tell you that was even a christian. Philosopher. Who did a review of my book. And he said oh no no no we live in a material stage where a lot of people you know don't believe. The physical material universe. Also they actually have a higher view of the body. Excess. They don't believe the spirit of soul or whatever. Well you can think the body is all that exists and still have a low view of it. And doesn't contribute to who you are as a person. Public intellectual. And she's a lesbian. She's a bit of an iconoclastic lesbian because she doesn't believe sex is a social construction which is what a lot of somebody else would say. She says no no. Nature made of male and female. Humans are sexually reproducing species. And so then you say. In that case how do you defend being a lesbian. And she said. That was her word and then she went on to say. Fate not god. Has given us this flesh. We have absolute claim to our bodies and may do with them as we see fit. So that is really the logic. The homosexual move. That basically saying. Our bodies a part of nature but nature. Make sure the product of mindless purposeless forces. And therefore it has no intrinsic purpose. That we are morally obligated. To respect. Even even if they tomatoes this way we can do with it whatever we want. And what what we need to do to counter that is christians to say. In the christian worldview. Nature exhibits a design a plan. An order a purpose. And when we live in harmony with that purpose we will be healthier and happier. Oh this is not just a religious statement. Science itself shows. That nature exhibit. A. You know the ice are made for seeing clearly. Add ears are for hearing. Films of a swimming and. Wings of a flying. The development of the entire organism is driven by internal blueprint or plan that's dna. So besides itself shows that. That we are designed for a purpose. All christians are saying is that when we live in harmony with that purpose. We are going to be happier we are going to be healthier we're going to have an internal harmony. You know who even science tells us. That this is who we are. Insightful and interesting and i know if for the girls that are listening you might be thinking like wow i want to understand this more and that's exactly why nancy wrote her book love thy body which you can dig into more but before we go nancy i mean i can sit here and obviously ask you questions all day you're just such an amazing woman and i just have so been fascinated and just enjoying this conversation but i know that for our listeners they may be thinking you know like maybe one of our listeners is thinking like wow i'm really struggling right now with exactly. What you're saying and what professor piercy is talking about and so what would you say to the christian girl who was struggling struggling right now with the thought that she may be transgender. Homosexual. Absolutely. I tell the story in lovely body of a young woman named. Rebecca not her real name. Daily guys and never ever thought she would be. I just didn't cross your mind. That she would have same-sex attraction. And but when she went to college. She. I mean. Lesbian. She totally fell for it. She went home to her she went home to her dorm that night and said. This is what i want. You know some people when they tell their stories it's many years of questioning and wondering. Yeah this is who i am. And it was. And so she struggled with what i what i would call girl crushes. But nonetheless. It was a very difficult temptation for many years and she fell deeply in love once or twice. She got married and. Continued having girl crushes. I said she talked about it with her husband. He said this. He said. Because god made you a woman. You can be confident. That no matter what your feelings are right now. You will ultimately be more fulfilled with a man. And of course it goes the opposite direction to he said because i'm a man. Whatever my feelings might be. I can be totally confident that i will be ultimately more fulfilled. With a woman. Now that makes sense. That was the beginning of the turnaround. It took another couple of years. Alcoholic probably should never. Take a drink. And rebecca said i still can't watch. Orange is the new black you know orange is the new black it had a lot of lesbian scenes. So she said you know i have to be careful i can't watch lesbian scenes and there are. That was. But what what her husband was basically saying to her was the same thing as lovely body he was saying because biologically god has made you a woman. You can be confident that ultimately your feelings will line up. You see what the postmodernist says. Is have you ever seen the gender unicorn. I haven't no. And it's been used in schools it's being used in you know. What is the point of it is that. You know your sexual feelings in your head. Gender identity you have gender expression which is now separate from gender identity and you have physical attraction and you have emotional attraction and and oh and by the way you also have biological sex. Things that can all be contradictory according to the postmodern view. And so none of them have to line up all can be in contradiction to one another. And on the website where this was where the gender unicorn was developed it actually says point blank. The term biological sex. Is harmful to trans people. Biological sex. That is now being called a hate term. So here is once again you know the story of rebecca was that. It was just another way of saying god is giving you a body. You know god loves you. She cares about your body. He cares about who he's made you to be. It's just amazing that we have a higher view of the body than any other worldview out there. And that's what we should be that's what a message focus on is the positive. That it's christianity that teaches you the value and dignity. Amen yes amen to that and i love that that's your perspective and that's what you're sharing because i think that's what we as women and young women. Relationship with him that's going to help clear up a lot of this confusion because if we're filling our minds with just media and the messages from the world it's going to be more confusing and it's going to seem more difficult and that's why i love that you wrote love thy body to help navigate all of these issues but to also help us to understand that we have a loving designer and that he is design is good i want to wrap things up here because i don't want to take up much more of your time you've been so gracious so far but nancy did you just have a final like exhortation or word of encouragement for our young women and women listening. But i like the fact that you said you know we need to get more into god's word so let me give you a theological. Theologically. What were up against today is not. Much different from what the early church. And we so we can get encouragement for that. The early church also faced a culture. That denigrated the body the material world. With islams like. Gnosticism know if you do bible study you probably learned that gnosticism was one of the isms that the new testament was written against. Was was big at the time augustine was a manatee. Satanism know from the philosopher plato. The body is the prison house of the soul so he always had a very negative view of the body. Agnosticism taught that this world was the creation of a. Diddy an evil god. And so christianity in. In that culture. Was nothing short of revolutionary. Because it said. None of the world is created by the supreme deity who is a good god. Intrinsically good. The greatest scandal at the time was the incarnation because it said. The same supreme deity had actually entered into this world and take an auto body. That was that was just. Scandal. At the time. Of the dignity. Of the human body. And when jesus was executed on a roman cross we might say he did. Escape this physical world which is what gnosticism said we should do is that it taught that salvation means escaping the world because the world is so evil. But what did he do then. He came back. In a physical body. This was not spiritual progress. And at the end of time god's. That's not going to scrap the material world. As if you made a mistake the first time around. And restore and renew the physical creation and you and i will live on that physical creation in in resurrected bodies. Set from the beginning the apostles creed. The resurrection of the body. I have to tell you i've researched a lot of other religions and philosophies. There is nothing like this. This is the highest year the physical body that you will find in any religion or philosophy anywhere. And that's what should motivate. We should be so excited and so happy. Positive. That we have a beautiful life-giving message. The outshines any other message out there. And so we should be motivated by. Joy and excitement. In communicating this message to other people. That's something that's such a positive. Thank you so much nancy just for bringing that. And i'll put it all in the the notes as well but i just want to say thank you so much thank you for your resources that you have created for all of us to take part in and to learn and to grow they are absolutely necessary for our times today. You know it's just it's hard it's hard being a young person it's hard being a teenager a young woman it's confusing and so i'm just so grateful for you and for this book and obviously i i wish i could bring you know required as homework for every one of our listeners right now but thank you for being on here and chatting with me it's been absolutely amazing i know it probably felt like that conversation flew by it did for me and i wanted to talk more and more and more and more about we had to be respectful of professor nancy percy's time she is a very busy woman and she was so gracious to you just answer all of our questions and you know just be so bold and courageous and talking about things that are so not politically correct and so not like okay to talk about today and that's the kind of woman i want to be and i'm guessing that's the kind of woman you want to be as well. And that's why it's so important for us to be intentional and going after. Truth going after resources like love thy body going after listening to podcasts like this being in the word so that when we are presented with these huge issues around us we know how to process them and think about them in a biblical way according to our designers way i really encourage you to grab a copy of professor piercy's book love thy body i'll link it below and again you know you don't just become a bold woman like professor piercy i don't know where it takes intentional. Effort and years of studying god's word. Building that relationship with him intentionally pursuing truth and again if you are like i want to be that kind of woman come to the 2021 girl to find conference on july 30th and 31st where you can be equipped to grow in becoming a bold and courageous woman join online if you're not able to come in person but go to girl define calm slash conference girl define.com conference it's an event you're not going to want to miss with the sisterhood to grow and become a courageous woman for christ hopefully we'll see you in july and if not we'll see you next week on the podcast. 