I'm just. That's. I'm going to go first and do the intro which will only be ok google poll on instagram and asked if you wanted us to give a girl to find review of barbie and the majority of you said yes to those of you said no i'm so sorry but i do have a treat for you because kristen was out of town and i was like i need someone else to do this review with me so i asked my husband dave. He said yes he definitely had no plans of going to see barbie but we were able to make a date night out of it we got all dressed up. When is all barbie and now we have some thoughts. For you we are going to deliver with some juicy tots. What's up y'all it's bethany and dave here and we are here to deliver a barbie. Shiny happy people if you think about it just think about it for a little bit. Thanks for the plug okay tell us how you ended up. Being the one here. To. A barbie review. I'm here because the other night you said hey we can get someone to watch the kids and. Cozy barbie together. And i was like for like a free date so. It was yeah you've been asking me that like you've been suggesting you're like hey you should go see barbie with girls or you should go see it with friends and you kept asking me like since it's come out if i've been interested in going to see it. Super interesting or something that i really wanted to see but i was like everyone's talking about this and the gdm crew probably wants to hear some thoughts or take on it. For those of you who have seen it or haven't there will definitely be spoilers so just. Spoiler alert spoiler alert so yeah then i saw our friends paul and morgan they went and saw it they have a great review too you can go over there at the mall morgan show and watch their review they were funny because they got tickets but the movie was packed so they couldn't even sit together so that was funny we did get to sit together. Okay so why don't we kick some people out. Do you want to give like for those who aren't up to date on what the barbie movie is you want to get the overview i don't know the story. Not really. Basically the doll barbie but they basically make a whole world like she lives in this world the barbie land and barbie land is based on all of. And she says hi to other barbies that also live in the same world they're all named the same basically and then she said hi barbie and then there's one allen. Calories in the movie and then. Incident that kind of. Well actually we missed the very very beginning so that part came in when we walked in the theater and had just basically said barbie on the screen so the main screen a little bit. Anyway so it's narrated by helen mirren which is great but it's it's a. Very self-aware attempting to be a very self-aware kind of style where you sort of. I like the dolls exist with equality and nobody is ever sad or whatever but just kind of in a very ironic way and. Stuff like that and so the tone yeah so the tone of the movie definitely is satirical. And it's definitely kind of winking. You know all over the place and trying to kind of. You know be smart it was kind of trying to be. Which actually enjoyed so that you know i would enjoy it more than destiny but. What else so she has to. She starts having thoughts of death. And other unpleasant thoughts and so she's wondering what's happening because in her perfect world she only has perfect thoughts and she drinks from perfect. Teacups that don't actually have tea and she takes perfect showers. Without water coming out and just just basically it's delightful in the sense that. It's kind of how kids play with dolls so she just sort of floats off her building because a kid could just pick her up and carry her to another part of the. You know. Playroom barbie land. So she has to try to figure out what's wrong with her she's starting to have distressing thoughts and her feet are. Flat on the ground which before she always had the. The eternal barbie high heel feet so. Now. Her feet are flat on the ground. So she goes to weird barbie. And weird barbie is this. Oh you know we should say there's a. There's a connection between the real world as it's as it becomes called and the barbie land and so things that happened in the real real world to. Barbie toys in the real world affect what hat what happens to barbies and barbie. So depending whoever their owner is in the real world you know could be playing with them. Abusing them or stretching their legs or you know cutting their hair and that kind of. Has a affect yeah translates into barbie land so that's very humor. So they would be weird barbie and weird barbie is sort of the ultimate. Stereotypical version of that doll that was basically just smashed and thrown around and hair cut and colored on and and always doing the splits which is really which is really funny cuz you see barbie's all over the place that are in weird positions and stuff like that so. Kate mckinnon she was probably one of my favorite parts of the movie. So i mean just like the overall plot i'm trying here. Yeah why don't you help cuz well. Says then she goes she needs to go to. The real world to see what's up with her owner the person who's been playing with her what's wrong in their life. And if she does that she can. Get back to her normal perfect life i think is the promise so she. Basically heads off to the real world to figure out. What the heck is wrong. And then. Was that the extent of the. All right okay so let's start with. To be a christian movie in any way shape or form so i think when we as christians come to these movies and we are trying to. Analyze it from like our own christian world they have this and they have that like. Of course this is not a christian movie so if you are going to barbie and expecting like christian values to be present in there that's not the case you know this is so you have to go into a movie with the expectation of who's creating this and. Okay great you know are there things in it that are going to. Too many things that are going to compromise my convictions okay i won't go see it you know you are making that choice based on the fact that this is not a christian movie so we're not coming to analyze this as like. What you know what did they go against scripture and what then we're just giving it we are christians and we're going to talk about the movie. And why we didn't like it so that's kind of the point of this review it's a little bit more of a cultural conversation something that is absolutely exploding right now in culture and so we want to be a part of those conversations and. Particularly want to be a part of every cultural contract. Okay so i was thinking we could do. Starting with the positives. And then maybe we could go to our negatives after that. Well. Let's see you'll probably realize as it goes on that i have less positives and more negatives. My positives i thought the set was really fun i thought like the whole like all the pink all the barbie land stuff the dream houses. All of that the costumes everything was like such a blast. So fun all the outfits were so cute i thought all the actors were like really like good like i thought they did a really great job of just like really being the character that. The director wanted them to be so they fit the storyline script hands down for me. Ken was by far the most hilarious to me i just thought his whole personality and him in the story kind of like made it he really brought. Cuz. She was absolutely hilarious so i really really. I thought i think one of the best parts is just like the marketing like i think the people who win at barbie is a marketing team because they created and it's you know marketing over the years really to create this but then even leading up to the barclays of barbie i mean just the fact that like all of these groups of girls and like women are getting all dressed up and like planning these girls nights and planning these girls days and like all of them want to get a picture inside the barbie box at the movie theater and everyone's just dressing up in pink and like having so much fun with it to me that's probably one of the most positive things about the entire movie is just all of these. Friendships and sisters getting together dates and just like all the people that are coming together and making memories so that's probably the biggest positive for me it's just all of the like fun that people are having so that's the extent of my positives that's the extent okay i enjoyed it more than that just because if you like the kind of intellectual. Kind of trying to be smart type of movie. You're trying to figure out what are they trying to say and how is the storytelling work to sort of say what they're trying to say then it's actually more engaging so for me it was more engaging because the whole movie i was kind of like okay where are they where are they going with this one okay then now this this sort of plot device where are they going with this. No it's not really being simple minded but if if. It's more the expectation if you're going. To see a sincere movie it was not that it was not really a sincere movie. In the sense that it wasn't. It wasn't. It wasn't really it was trying. It was trying to be so self-aware of itself. That when it did try to be sincere. Well this is probably getting into that's more of a negative okay so if you were expecting just a fairy tale like a disney princess movie or something like that that's not what. And so i wasn't as disappointed. Figured or i'd heard that it had more of that kind of cultural commentary sort of feminist angle. Which which it did i would say largely in a certain sense but. I enjoyed all that there was a pretty again intellectual but. Existential message which i like existentialism as just kind of a philosophy it's fun. And just like a lot of successful hollywood movies. They they're going to have an existentialist message and it basically goes something like. What is it really mean to be human. Does you know do we have a crater if we do have a creator. What does that mean for our life purpose is purpose fixed or is it something that we create and typically the existentialist will say. You know meaning is not inherent to reality it's something that you create and so. It had a very garden variety version of that message. So i would say particularly at the end of the film when it was kind of wrapping up. What what is the point of all this that's kind of where it went which is very. Unc. Cuz you watch movies and this is like the message from probably most movies to watch and. Again along with that kind of existentialist streak is. Development so i'm really into a lot of that stuff just as not necessarily as the whole entirety of. A worldview but it's got a lot of interesting ideas and so i'd rather movie move in that direction then some of the other directions so actually appreciated. A lot about how barbie. And then the more i thought about it the more i appreciated this and the more i read about it too. Where was it really trying i think a lot of conservatives thought oh it's just bashing men. And i think that what it was doing was it was more saying like here's here's a stereotypical. World you know barbie land and here are the. Some of the impacts on the real world with expectations for women and stuff like that and and and and here are some of the kind of. Tropes in stereotypes about patriarchy and you know we're going to kind of explorer that what. What is patriarchy came to barbie land in one point in. So i really like that that idea it was very experimental to me of just like let's put these stereotypes along with these stereotypes and that's what the power dynamic and then let's see what happens and then let's flip it back and then let's try to come to something that's maybe that maybe transcends both of those and i think the filmmakers did try to do that specially near the end they tried to and we can go into some of. Typical of i mean these days it's pretty typical to just have a straight up. Here is the power dynamic here's who's been oppressed and then let's basically like flip that and the people who should be leading are the people who have been oppressed. And the movie i don't think the movie exactly went there. In the final in the final analysis. In the final analysis in terms of what happens in the real world i don't think that the movie was necessarily trying to say oh would be better if women were in charge of everything. Barbie land is a very. So i liked all that yeah i liked all that all that exploration is fun the philosophical explorations are fun. Ken was who he was so funny. And. Weird barbie as well. So those are my two favorite parts i would say in the musical numbers. I'm just kidding it's so it's so funny. Story arc 2 for his character arc is so in my opinion please. These are so i thought that there's some things that were very well done about that. They thought he was hilarious so it's like man if you wanted this to be a man steals the show go figure you know like because women when we start to take ourselves so seriously and we try to become like like i don't know like instead of just like go and do and be what you want they have to say it all like no this is where we've been and this is where we're going like it's like. So seriously like almost from the beginning and then like. Seriously so he was much more likeable. Ken to me was interesting cuz he. I also described him as having no. He has no. What he says is basically what's in his mind. And so it's a character that's a very. Very easy to read in some ways. And you don't have that with every character in the movie. And so i think. I think for me. His character arc is very clear and fun to follow. Because he goes from should we get into. He goes from. He goes into the real world and he discovers patriarchy cuz they didn't have that in barbie land and barbie land. Basically image of a utopian matriarchy and so the. You know women are sort of the. First class. In a group and then the ken dolls are sort of. The secondary. I don't know. And you know every night is girls night he's constantly excluded from from the female spaces if you want to put it that way so it's very. She is. She gets his sense of self. From the gaze of barbie. So barbie looks at him and that's how big he basically gets a sense of self is because identity is wrapped up in what she thinks of them. And her giving him attention. This is a very weak place to be but at least it's easy to read it's very simple you know okay and the narrator even says that like can exists basically to. For barbie to look at him. Hey hey barbie no and she said yes you know if she says hey ken to another can then he's like no. He discovers patriarchy and then brings patriarchy back to barbie land and flop flips everything and brainwashes all the barbie dolls basically so that he and the other ken dolls can basically run the show. And so he goes from this week sort of. Subservient like. I don't exist if she's not in my world to this basically like you're in my world to serve me. And which is. The same weakness except the opposite this is just the opposite end of the spectrum but it's no more developed it's it's a very underdeveloped. Mode and so i like all that that's actually. A lot of. Men have either one of those either we build our life around a woman. Or you know an individual that we can look up to. Or we tend to you know want someone to service us and sort. Build their life around us either way it's a weak place to be and so can try both so he has he has one in the beginning and then he goes and swings to the other end and the end and. Through the course of the movie you know at the end he has to learn that. His identity in his sense of self. Can't be linked to barbie that barbie being in love with him or barbie. You're looking at him can't be where he gets his sense of self. He has to find that elsewhere and so. Or barbie and ken it's. What did she say anything about barbie and ken it's like. Barbie also. In similar fashion. Has the same crisis she doesn't really have a sense of self either. For most of the movie she is struggling. With the fact that. She thinks who she is is basically this. Image. This expectation of stereotype that she's supposed to sort of perform and this is supposed to give women a sense of empowerment. And she learns that that is not really what's happened. And there are other barbies as well you know president barbie there are you know dr barbie all that stuff. In barbie land and they are supposed to be looked on as these. Paragons of female empowerment and stuff. But i think the film really tries to go after the idea that. You're more than your role and you're more than these expectations of society's placing on you so barbie is basically under. She gets her reflected sense of self from what society says about her and what society expects from her and can gets his sense of self from what barbie thinks of him right. And and then or if barbie's building. Her world around him. And then. And then the barbies decide to. Flip back the power dynamic once barbie land becomes a patriarchy they decide to use their their talents as women. It was doofus men who are duped in you know. In a million different ways to basically flip the power dynamic back. To it being that. Barbie land again where women are. You know the ones with the key voices and stuff like that. And i think what the movie. Sort of. Where it goes is that at the end of all that barbie still doesn't know who she is. And i thought that was one of the best things that the movie. Said was that. Flipping around taking. Power in. Grouper in a society. Isn't going to give you yourself. You are simply. Reacting to who's that if you're reacting to whoever has the power once you actually do get the power you're not going to know who you are anymore than you did before and that's what can can find ken didn't have the power then he got the power he still didn't have a sense of self. He thought that. What made him unique was that barbie you know served him or that he could you know play the guitar that he knows the stuff that i can do whatever it's still not a solid sense of self it's very reflected. Based on you know how cool i am and how barbie builds barbie just feeds his ego you know. At the very end of the movie there's basically this message of. What does it mean to actually be humans barbie has a chance to become human. And what is it that actually mean does it mean fulfilling the designs of your creator. Who she meets she meets the creator who created barbie. Does it mean and and what that woman says this old lady near the end says. You know i can't control you basically i don't control your destiny even though i made you i don't control your destiny and so basically barbie has to figure out who she is going to be. And develop that solid sense of self. And in good existentialist fashion the basically she's going to look inside and decide who she wants to be and she ends up. Traveling to the real world. And to become a part of it to basically be human. And. Presumably learns to live his life. As an individual without barbie. I actually think that whole line was that i just. Out. But it is actually. Great in a lot of ways that is. A lot of us are. Suffering from our own weakness a reflected sense of self that's what this person thinks about me is my expectations it's my performance that really gets me to have a sense of self and so going deeper than that is important although the movie does you know. I think mirror the worldview of the filmmakers which is going to be sort of like well create your own meaning you decide you know you decide that's going to be as a christian i wouldn't stop there but i would say well that's better than what they had previously in the movie. I mean it's interesting because i was telling you like. I watched the selena gomez documentary and it basically ends with her being like you know i am enough and it's kind of what the barbie movie ends with it's just like the. Very popular thing to say or to believe is to just like i mean can literally wears like a sweater at the end that says he's enough but then with the big case so he's enough you know like 10 10 and barbie is setting out to be kind of like ordinary barbie just like a normal person in the world just like enough as who she is she doesn't have to be stereotypical barbie she doesn't have to always look perfect she can get cellulite she can have flat feet and she is enough and so to me. It's really sad that that's where we end things like we. What is that rooted in just like believing it just hoping like i am enough you know i don't know as a christian to me that's like. You're not enough and that's okay because christ is enough and we find our sense of identity and self in him and so to me that's so crucial as a christian because. I'll never be good enough i'm going to have hard days i'm going to have moments where i don't like the way that i look i'm not going to always you know like even if i can be confident like. At the end of the day i do have a longing to be named by someone my creator to have an identity outside of myself to live for something greater than myself and so these movies that end like barbie with like this whole big build-up and all of this and then it's just kind of like you are enough it's like. So that that kind of. Bugs meme. I think we probably do a differently so this is the big debate amongst cancer like conservatives particularly is some say no they were not bashing on men they were not making making men look bad. Total idiots it wasn't just supposed to be funny so. What do you think about that. First of all. Neither stereotypical barbie land nor the real world were. The realistic so started so the real world and bar in the movie barbie is like stereotypical real world. From the perspective of i don't know. Checking in third grade feminists or something and some post feminist too i think i think that. The men are bashing in the movie the men they're bashing or doofuses. I don't necessarily see there being a message as. You know all men are like this to me it's actually positive it's like all the men in the movie are like this. There's not really any man in the movie that's that's. Has any substance. But then i'll go up the kind of metal level and be like yeah but ryan gosling is in the movie and he crashes his role he does a really good professional job as an actor so there is a man in the movie and you know other their other men as well who are really killing it as at their career. Doing a really good job and doing and doing a great job for the movie. Does the movie really not have any men who you know is it bashing all the men or is it basically saying that you can also look how good ryan gosling and. Look at how well they do. I just don't. I just don't take the story that seriously see that's my problem though because i feel like the movie there was. It was supposed to be like kind of over the top and every way like this is ridiculous and this is ridiculous but then i feel like the movie especially barbie side of the movie like 10 of the movie to me stayed pretty like comedic and funny and not that serious like he brought all the much-needed humor and barbies her whole side and all the women. The women you know all the barbie dolls have to be like woken up to this to realize that they have been living under the picture but it's like these are like feminist talking points you know like it's like back in the day like women women need to know that you know like they would literally like we have to tell them how unhappy they are in there because you know the idea that there is and their brainwashed so. They're actually is kind of a streak within. Where you're under a false consciousness if you don't. Really holds if you're not awakened to the reality that's the systemic sexism in the society then you're basically living in false consciousness your brainwashed by the patriarchy and so that's exactly what happens in environment their brainwashed and you know. And they have to wake up when they're when they're sort of. Given phrases of cognitive dissonance you have to be thin but not talk about being thin or you have to be thin but not too thin and you can't talk about but you know have to talk about health you know or. Are there like you know you need to i'm not you know you need to mother him but you're not need to not remind him of his mother and all the things like this where where it's things that actually to some degree in many relationships are probably true funny true. Those are the things that sort of wake the barbies up to oh my goodness i've been asleep and. Yes i can now see clearly and. I think that's one of the irony of the movie and one of the irony of trying to be so self-aware is that you could do a number of those just based on the movie itself and just how the movie is using commercialism and and possibly even sexism to basically try and sound like there's a character will ferrell plays a character in the movie where he is. She tries to have all these things like we've had women ceos like twice you know we we we have pulled when we empower women this is you know and he's just so adamant that he's basically he's like woke and he's he's with it and. The film's making great point you know that that. All these talking points don't actually. Make you. Aware of the society or or or or or put you in a place where you're actually willing to share power because he's the ceo and he's at the top that's actually. Under one perspective. That's a great analogy for the movie itself is that kind of character who is basically like saying all the things but still functioning in a very capitalist very. You know even possibly sexist way and. At least according to the definition that's been put forward and so you could argue that there is a cognitive dissonance just with the movie itself and what it's trying to say so the cognitive dissonance would be between what the movie is trying to say and the fact of the movie and the fact that the barbie brand being one of the big. Reasons why the movie is having any attendance. So i don't think people are necessarily just attending for the deconstruction. I mean they were if you go and see it and if you have seen it. It was just so so that way and so it's just almost insulting it's like that it's like you feel like they're telling you like you need to be this way or else you're like stuck under old ways of thinking and it's like oh that's i have no problem with that that's their opinion like in a few years things are going to change and it's gonna be like oh my goodness that's so 2023 you know like why does it have to be all of these like talking points i mean. Ridiculous like over the top i was like. Literally falling asleep because it was just became so boring like there were no surprises like you could basically from the very beginning. And so that's like really like why and then the whole idea of like. You know there were there really wasn't any romantic relationship between ken and barbie and it's like they. We don't need men we don't want men and so we just have to be like the hero of our own destiny and the hero of our own story and he needs to go be his own person but we definitely didn't have any romance or any relationship but the reality is so many women. But not everyone just wants to be like individual and like conquering the whole world like we loved having like you know a person or even to be pursued so it's just like ridiculous if you yeah but. They don't want to be with they don't want to be with a man they don't want to be with any of the men in the movie. It's like you shouldn't yeah exactly so i i. That's more like. Well actually good men that. Honor and love women well. Are made to look even better that's how i view the movie it's like. It's more like. Yeah if you're surrounded by guys like that i'm very sorry that is really rough. And i. The movie doesn't explicitly say all men are like this. Out of the box. Literally a complete idiot. Women are. Outstripping men. So many different sectors in our society in education and careers and stuff it's like. Very much falling behind it seems like there's a crisis of identity amongst many men so. A lot of. There are movements that are sort of capturing a lot of these men that are really stereotypical that are like the manosphere that i've heard of i don't know much about it but. Is this sort of idea that if the feminists say this you start to say the opposite. The simon says say you know oh you know they have all the power and so you're like dude it's good to have power you know you basically just a firm that sort of thing. And there are a lot of groups like that and there are a lot of guys that treat their the women that they're with like that. Been a very much like you're here to serve me either. The week the week and start a nice guy approach where i'm building my life around you and your happiness is the most important thing in my life and you our relationship is the most important thing that's a very weak position to be in. And at just as much as the you know jerk version where it's like you need to serve me and stuff but the thing is it seems to me like that very much exists men like that. We're like that sometimes i mean i guess what i'm saying is like. So far to this side of like. Was saying like you know it's all these jokes like testosterone is a cancer and we have to basically like weed out men from our like men are the problem and i think of raising a son and it's like i do not want to raise him. And his masculinity as a problem i think you'll be okay well i think so we got to start wrapping it up here. My overall. Opinion of the movie. My overall okay like i was going into it i didn't read reviews like i didn't watch any reviews or listen to any reviews before going to see it because i wanted to be as open-minded as possible and i just went in like i hope this will be interesting engaging i hope at least like you know i'm there for like 2 hours and we paid this money and we have a babysitter like hopefully i'll just be like entertained and engaged and i felt like. Boring to me and i just felt like it was so obvious and like i was saying you can pretty much tell the story line from the beginning so that was kind of like a disappointment like why even if you remove all of the their messaging out of it like all the wokeness all the political stuff all the messaging like even just the story as a whole to me was so lacking like i just feel like there was so much more they could do with that so just like on that level it was really. Not entertaining like it's not a movie i'm ever going to pull out and be like girls night which would be have been so fun but every night is girls. It's like so serious like. Why can't we just feel like ordinary barbie why do we have to be doctor barbie or you know president barbie or stereotypical barbies or like why can't we just be a mom or why can't we not be all of this stuff like why can't we just be ordinary and then they have the idea like we should create ordinary and apparently it's like so like crazy people are actually really into this and then what's ridiculous though is that. Who wants to really in of all these people actually acting like who of them wants to actually be ordinary barbie like they have a lot more that they want for their life whether it's to make a lot of money to be a super successful producer to be a massive actor the women and i was looking up at the plastic surgeries that they've had done and all the work that they've had done and it's like yeah so you're telling me all of you want to be ordinary barbie is that why you got that removed in your nose job and your chin lift like you just want to be ordinary barbie and that's crazy because it's such a lie to these young girls and young women who are going like yes i want to be ordinary barbie just like that person well if you fork over 1,000 of dollars you can also get all the surgeries to and enhance yourself as well you know and it's ridiculous like y'all aren't all of you women saying like why can't we just be ordinary none of you want that for your life and so it's ridiculous like to me all of that is so confusing and such a contradiction and but you're you know at the end of the day you are enough or nearby is enough and you're still. What are young women left with nothing no that's. At the end of the day even being ordinary like that's not enough because that's we do have a creator and we were made for more but it's just. So i give it a. I give it a really generous on an entertainment scale i give it a generous three on a what i ever recommend it scale i give it a super generous. 0 -. What's your rating. I don't think so babe that's that's amazing i think we just done with that. And we'll see you all again next week bye-bye. 