Today on the girl to find show we are going to have a super down to earth fun casual conversation all about the topic of motherhood many of you guys know that zack and i adopted our boys a little over two years ago now which is crazy but they're bigger boys they're 13 and 9 and so motherhood has looked very different for me. Discipleship and discipline how we do school how we talked about life how we strive to be intentional to teach our boys about god and what it looks like to walk in his ways you know it's so funny because i'm. You know girl defined has been my passion helping women young women and now here i have these two boys that i'm raising so it's been like such a shift. But it's been awesome so let's just dive in all things motherhood today here on the girl to find show. Hey sisterhood it's kristen here and i'm so glad you're sticking around for this conversation i had this idea and i was like you know what i'm just going to jump on this is very impromptu i have like. Duffy bullet points so i just you know don't get too much off on some random rabbit trail and then 30 minutes later like what are we even talking about i haven't really shared an update with you guys in a while or talk to specifically about motherhood and what it looks like for me and. My experiences the journey on the highs the lows the in between and then just digging into some of the practical things the things that i've learned from other moms that have been hugely helpful even just in the past two years and my boys discipling my boys loving my boys. All those things and then of course there's still so many more things i have to learn i i see other moms sometimes and like you and it's like i have such a long way to go but god's grace is sufficient he is good he is faithful and he's not looking for perfection he knows we're not perfect that's why he gave us jesus but just that daily. Dependence upon the lord is something that i am also striving in and continuing to grow in so. Driving right in. Motherhood has been awesome like i said in the intro our boys are 13 and 9 so i have a teenager. I have a teenager what in the world he just turned 13 a couple months ago and that was wild for me. Because many of you know my journey to become a mom was hard it was 10 years of infertility of her current miscarriage of. Things not working out the way i hope the way i planned in fact i write all about that in the book i offered with bethany not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of your story so just quick plug if you're in a season of unfulfilled longings. I'm in any capacity whether it's children marriage something else a job friendships then not part of the plan. Will be a huge huge encouragement to you we get super raw super down to earth real in that book. Open the door for adoption couple years ago and did a 180 in my heart i wasn't really open to adoption before there was just a lot of things about it that were unknown kind of foreign kind of scary to me but god did a 180 in my heart and just helped me see the beauty the the parallels of the gospel and earthly adoption and it's just like my heart exploded and i was 100% on board and. God let us to ukraine and now we have our two boys. And so i became an instant mom of two boys and at the time when we adopted them they were 10 and 6 they could not speak any english zero english. They can speak russian and ukrainian and zack and i were trying to learn a little bit of those languages so we can communicate thankfully google translate came in really clutch but it was just an interesting start you know not your typical way that most of you. Who are moms have become moms or those of you who will become moms one day it's not the most traditional path to motherhood but one that i'm so grateful for and that i wouldn't change for the world. To give you guys just kind of a. A snapshot of what a day looks like for us how i strive to be intentional how. Take it on some of the things that i've seen from other godly moms and tried to implement them into my discipleship with the boys i am i stay at home mom i really am i homeschool the boys i mean we are together all the time but then i also work part-time i do girl to find podcasting writing books things you know on social media stuff like that and then of course just involved in so many things in my church all of that so how my hand and a lot of different places but i love it and the boys truly have become my priority they are my children i love them to death i want to be there for them i want to be available present i want to have opportunities to invest to disciples to disciple to train so it's just been a huge transition but really sweet. Currently they are at a co-op so we homeschool and then one day a week they do go to a co-op for maybe like six or seven hours so that's where they're there right now so i'm able to easily record this and just have this phone conversation with you guys but one of the things that i've seen a lot of other families do that i found to be so helpful not only personally but in showing our boys from the beginning that god is the most important that he is the one that we need oh i need him so desperately my boys they can see that every day. But we want to remind all of us including our boys that we need god and that. We want to seek him you know we want our hearts to be set on him at the beginning of each day and so something that we started doing. Right after we brought them here to america and started developing some of our routines and rhythms as a family as we start every single morning. With a family devotional time and this usually looks like all of us together or sometimes i will have to leave for work early so i just do it with the boys but we sit down and we all. Bible so they can follow along and understand and kind of. You know engage but we also down with our bibles and then for like 5 to 10 minutes we actually each just kind of engage in our own bible and the reason we did this instead of just doing it all together. Only is because we wanted to train them that it's important to learn god's word for yourself it's important to to take an interest in god's word and not just be a passive recipient kind of like. To actually it kind of take ownership like yeah god cares about you you you you know he loves you like you can discover who he is on your own you don't have to have your parents although we play a huge role in that so from the beginning we gave them each their own bibles we all sit down and for like 5 to 10 minutes like i said we all just look at our own bibles you know at the beginning they would just look at the pictures and they loved it like they thought this was awesome and they loved learning about god and i would just read my own bible and then now that they can read that they have their own bible's with actual like the bible you know like actual text not just pictures and we sit there and we do the same thing now and it's just so sweet and they wake up they know it's the routine they look forward to it they don't. They want to know more about god it's just really sweet to see their eager hearts so we do that for 5 to 10 minutes and then we do transition to having some bible time together so at that point i will read a devotional like there's so many different devotional books that we've gone through just really great gospel centered books for kids that are bible-based devotional so they're learning about the word of god they're learning about god's character we've done so many over the past two years because we do it every day so we fly through them. But they loved that time and we sit. We read it all together and then we talked about it and we try you know i try to pull out one or two things that we can apply for that day. Don't want to overwhelm them you know we're not trying to cover everything all at once but just one or two things and then we stopped. And we all pray and i love this you know as soon as they could start speaking english they wanted to pray they were interested in engaging so for them this has been normal it's been part of our family routine from the beginning but we all pray from you know the youngest to the two boys and then i pray or zack will pray and we all just ask god to help us with that thing we learned about or we praise him for an attribute or something about his character that we learned in that devotional and then we asked him for help for the day you know for specific things that we each struggle with. We all know each other struggles and we all we pray for those things and we pray for one another and we pray for you know all sorts of things and just hearing the prayers of the boys like. It almost brings me to tear sometimes just hearing them talk to god and pour their heart out to god and for this to be such a natural habit for them something that is just like this is what we do we seek the lord we praise him and we pray to him. And it's something that is just it's just. What believers do and they loved it and it's been such a sweet routine so i just want to encourage you if you have little kids even if they're really small. To think about how you can incorporate. The guy you know god's word into your daily routines and i know everyone's life is so different and we all have so many. Different things going on in lots of variables that play but if you're able to carve out time. In the morning even just 10 minutes to sit with them and just show them the priority of god's word the value of seeking him on the humility of saying i need you god i'm not rushing off into my day before i seek you cuz i desperately need you i just think there's so much value and and so much that they will take with them lord willing as they get older to see that model for them in their parents and you teaching them and showing them just through doing it how to do it they don't really know how to do it and then and encouraging them to engage in prayer to pray and giving them opportunities to participate in that. I'm not has been really really sweet and something that i plan to keep on doing with the boys until they're out of the house so. That's what that's the way we start our day and then. Yeah in god's word and then throughout the day something that i heard. How from a mama while ago was just in discipleship to be really intentional throughout the day to bring god's word into the conversations even if it's a good thing like we're praising god for something you know like we've been dying for rain here in texas and we just got a big storm and everybody was like this is awesome but up to that point i had been kind of commenting to the boys like oh man i'm praying the lord will give us rain and then after the rain poor came i was like boys god answer my prayer like that's so exciting like we got rain and i was intentionally trying to. You know bring it back to the lord like he's our provider he's the one who even gives us rain and i know it sounds cheesy and it can feel so like. Christian is but it's just such a little comments and it helps all of us remember who are ultimate provider is who are the creator of the world is who we look to for our resources who we praise when we get rain you know it's not just like we got rain but like thank you lord for this rain so little things like that i try to be intentional i do not do this perfectly but i asked the lord to help me bring to mind things throughout the day that i can. Give him praise for that i can bring him into the conversation with and then when it comes to like problems and sin we do have sinned. Issues throughout the day i also try to be really intentional and again i've seen this modeled in other moms that i greatly admire. To bring god's word into those conversations so. For example when the boys first came if you're watching this then you'll be able to see what i'm holding up there are these sweet like little laminated verses. Very simplified versions of verses that i made and basically i just created these on my computer i just found random like little graphics and stuff they're very cheesy as you can see but i would do one at a time when the boys first got here as they were learning english learning the bible and as we encountered certain issues or struggles that are very common to us as humans and especially for brothers i would pull out one of the verses that was applicable to that situation and instead of just saying like don't fight with your brother or be nice to your brother or. Stop that behavior and do something different. I really really wanted to go after their heart and really help them see. With one another as they're struggling with their attitude toward me or struggling to obey or you know whatever like basic things that we go through as adults but it starts one more kids. I'm wanting to always take it back to god's word to show them ya like when you need jesus you're a sinner like here it is but to god's word has beautiful. Answers for this problem we don't have to just say stop doing that we can actually go to god's word. And we can encourage them with god's word and so i would literally you know if one boy was having a big issue with another i would pull them both aside or pull one of them aside and i would bring one of these scriptures so for example i'm holding it up here. Philippians 2:33 it says don't be selfish be humble thinking of others more than yourself. So if there was a conflict with their legos or their nerf guns or something that they were doing in one brother was genuinely being rude or selfish or not wanting to share than a set of just saying like you should share or the nice thing with you know the nice thing would be to do this or that i would set them down and i would say hey. Let's look at what god says about this you know god says don't be selfish be humble thinking of others more than yourself you know what could that look like in this situation and then. We would pray together and they would see the really beautiful thing about this is so often they would see their sin rather than just seeing their actions and that. The reality of their sin through scripture revealing it would then with them push them toward repentance and push them toward reconciliation so instead of just brushing it over like okay whatever. They would actually desire to go to their brother not always. Sometimes by my encouragement but sometimes they would desire on their own to go to their brother and say. Hey i'm sorry for being selfish or i'm sorry for thinking of myself more than you will you please forgive me. And from a young age you're teaching your children how to pursue biblical reconciliation biblical repentance biblical. Yeah reconciliation is the word of of going to someone that you've sinned against and seeing your son for what it is and then asking them to forgive you for that sin rather than just like whatever brushing it you know brushing it off and moving on which is oftentimes how. Another super simple one a verse is proverbs 15:1 simplified version a gentle answer turns away wrath but a harsh word stirs up anger so if the boys were having harsh words toward one another or even a harsh word toward me and that moment rather than just saying like don't talk that way or. I'm in the middle of something that's a lot of work. Whatever. I know that's not going to be helpful for them in the long term to ignore it or not care about it so i pause what i'm doing go over and pull them aside i try not to have you know big confrontations right in front of each other cuz that's can be unhelpful sometimes pull the one aside and just say hey. A gentle answer turns away wrath and try to get to their heart of like. You were having harsh words towards your brother you weren't loving him that's not how god wants us to speak to people and here's what proverbs says you know and again it helps them see. Not only how they are not walking in the ways of the lord but also helping them see what their sin is and helping them to go oh okay and then oftentimes the versus teach you what you should do like. A gentle answer turns away wrath like did you see how your brother responded to you he also got angry. A gentle answer would have been so much more effective here's how you could say the same thing you said but in it with a gentle answer and kind of role-playing. That is another huge thing we did a lot of role-playing we still do where the boys as we're training them and discipling them and teaching them certain things even versus like children obey your parents in the lord for this is right ephesians 6:1. Teaching them what it looks like to have a gentle answer what it practically looks like to obey and so we will and they think it's a fun game like they love it when i say okay let's practice what this looks like let's role player like yeah. I think they just like exaggerated and think it's so fun but it is fun it also teaches them how to like. Put some meat on the bones of what it looks like to walk in that biblical truth that we're talking about so. God's word and printing out scripture cards i know mine are really cheesy like i said you can find them. Couple bucks on etsy and you can laminate them. Call laminator on amazon like it's been super helpful so that is something that i strive to do throughout the day is just bring god's word into conflicts into joy's into all of those things and the reason i think that's so important is because we see this and deuteronomy 6 7 through 9. I'm in the old testament talking about god's laws and god's ways and you've heard this verse but it's such a good reminder where it says you shall teach them diligently to your children teach them what's them is the laws of god the ways of god teach them to your children and shall talk of them when you sit in your house when you walk by the way and when you lie down and when you rise you shall bind them as a sign on your hand and they shall be as friendless between your eyes you should write them on the doorpost of your house and on your gates robbie not doing all of those things that deuteronomy talks about but we are posting them you know maybe on the doorpost of our house i don't know if we have the same type of doorpost but we have scripture around our house and i keep these first these limited first cards in an accessible place we pull them out regularly the point of that versus just to say like discipleship isn't a one-and-done it's not like a one conversation once a day move on it is throughout the day it's as things arise it's as you can call attention to god's glory by looking at the magnificent sunset and praising his name it's it is the whole day. And and it can feel like wow that's a lot but. By god's grace and his help i think we can become parents who think more in that way who disciple more consistently. And just give god the glory throughout the day in front of our children and teaching them what that looks like. Another thing that we do that we did early on with our boys. That i found so helpful is less of a like a spiritual thing but more of just a practical development thing helping them grow into young adults you know they're young caleb's a young man i mean he's 13 he's definitely a young man so one of the things that we do is give them responsibility. I really admire and we give them responsibility. Giving them ways that they can. It's not a child-centered home where the parents do all the work all the serving all the thinking all the decisions and the kids are just like passive. You know passive beings just kind of floating along like we want the boys to be engaged we want them to take part in the family to learn how to have responsibilities roles even leadership roles within the family as young men and so one of the ways the practical ways that we do this and i know most of you do this if you have kids is chores. From the from early on when they came i made these two laminated chore charts and it's just you know shows monday through saturday we do we only do a few chores on sunday very basic ones cuz we love to enjoy that day of rest. But monday through saturday primarily they have you know four or five different chores that have little pictures because early on they like i said they couldn't read english so the pictures will help them know what their jobs were. I know i am telling you. They were. Like any kids they weren't thrilled at first to see their chore charts but then as they got into it and got on the rhythm and the routine and i i really from the beginning tried to phrase the chore charts less of like here's your chores you have to do and i'll make it happen it was more of hey. Being in a family means we all work together for the good of the family mom works for the family in this way you know dad works for the good of the family and this way and these chores are ways that you as members of this family can work for the good of our family these are ways you can take leadership you can be responsible you can give back. You can bless our family you can serve our family. And so and i have to remind them of that you know here and there just kind of reframing it in a positive spin to help them see that as members of the family we all have different roles and responsibilities and this your chores. This is one of those ways that you can bless the family and have responsibilities within the family. Negative thing they have to do but more of oh this is the way that i. Work for the good of our family these are they would call it their jobs actually robot does is the name for job in russian so they would call it their robot does like. Going to work in a sense to work for the good of our family so we do chores on a daily basis and i think it's so good you might be wondering do we give them allowance do we pay them. We do not not for their chores and the reason is because like i said we're a family unit we all work together for the good of our family. But we do pay them for extra work so i have a whole bunch of different you know extra jobs they can do around our house it's really cool cuz my parents live in the same neighborhood so they'll invite them over you know to hang out whatever but then sometimes they'll say hey we've got some extra jobs of the boys want to come over and make some money so the boys love that they can make extra money that way so we do pay them for work. But it's where it's work that that is extra that's not a part of just their daily routine chores that we view as just being a part of the family unit and working for the good of the family. So yes daily responsibilities something else that i love to do with boys and i've learned a lot from moms who have boys specifically. Is to recognize that these are young men. These are not young women they have to be raised in a way that's a little different than if i were raising girls and like i said at the beginning it's so funny and ironic that. I have this passion for women and this ministry for women and all these sisters you know five girls in my family and then here i am a mom of these two boys and i'm trying to learn and will continue to learn how to raise them in a way that's helpful for them to grow into godly men. How do i disciple these boys and and help them and encourage them and a firm godly masculine traits within them how do i do that i'm growing in that but some of the things i have found helpful from like i said moms who have boys just so admire so many of the things that they're doing it is giving my boys daily opportunities to practice healthy godly masculinity being a gentleman taking leadership and my husband is so good at affirming this in the boys as well and giving them opportunities to be gentleman to exert their masculinity and and productive ways and to lead giving them leadership responsibilities within the family but something that the boys love doing thanks to my husband who's really good at this is just such a gentleman is like opening doors for ladies. At a restaurant my boys are they they see the value of treating women like ladies and being a gentleman as we've you know we've installed this and then we've taught them. Does and they loved it and they thrive on it so they they will run ahead of me you know for walking into chick-fil-a they will run ahead of me and they'll open that door and if they see another lady coming out they'll hold it for her and it's just so sweet and you know they probably. You gentlemen wow we need more of you in this world. All the comments so they probably thrive off of the attention as well but at least they're being affirmed in something good that they're doing so. Little things like that i'm just opening doors. Gentlemanly action throughout the day you know all of them those kind of things in them and give them opportunities which by the way like as a woman i have to be intentional to not just rush ahead and open the door but i will like i'll see they're making you know efforts to kind of get ahead of me as we're walking up to something and i purposely will slow down. To give them the opportunity to open the door cuz i know they want to and i want to affirm that in them and give them opportunities to practice that so i have to be mindful of it as well as their mom but other ways like giving them chances to be in charge of things every time we leave the house you know we turn on our alarm and i've given that responsibility to the voice so they call them my alarm voice i'm like okay boys who's got the alarm and they love it you know it's like a keypad they love typing it in and setting the alarm and. But they love it and they love the responsibility so i'm always always looking. It's a way that they as young men can take leadership. Within the home and and kind of take care of me even as their mom like. Yesterday we were riding bikes this is the sweetest thing side story. We're riding bikes and you know they're like way out ahead of me were like in the neighborhood and they they say okay mom they kind of yell like we're going to head on home i'm like okay i'll see you when we get there and so they zoom off and i'm still riding my bike you know trying to catch up. And suddenly i look up and i see them coming back toward me you know like a minute later i'm like oh that's interesting maybe something happened i don't know and they ride up to me and they're like mom. We decided we couldn't leave you we need to protect you and i was just like. It is the sweetest thing. But the fact that they even thought about that and rode back you know to protect me in the neighborhood was so sweet and i i affirm that i'm like wow i am the safest mom out here like you guys are protecting me i am so thankful to have strong sons like you you know and i have ferment and i you know and i play along with it too and they just think it's the best so any chance we can get as moms to a farming masculinity to affirm gentlemanly qualities within our boys and then step back sometimes and give them an opportunity to take on responsibility to do those things i think that is huge another thing that we do is give them along the same line really quick is to give them leadership opportunities to practice being independent doing things apart from me making all of their decisions so like for example when we go to a restaurant. I have a really encouraged the boys to try to order from the menu on their own so when we walk up instead of me just saying okay what do you want what do you want okay well we want all these things i actually will have them step up and speak to the person if we're sitting at a restaurant to the waiter or at a counter like chick-fil-a and have them order their portion of the. And they love that at first they were nervous but now they love it it's like okay. Make the decision for what they want to eat one and then. Leadership in them and help them make you know make decisions on their own and learn how to communicate on their own. And and they're just driving in it they love it so if you have more tips on things like that please send them my way dm me on instagram at girl define when this you know if you're watching this on there i would love to hear more things that you do as a mom or things you've seen other moms do to a firm leadership responsibility independence in our boys i think it's just so helpful. Moving right along something else that we've seen model again and other families over the years is. One on one time with the kids and i know if you have little kids this could be really hard like a baby and a toddler you're like i don't know how that's going to work but just you know this is different things for different seasons but in our season with older boys it is really important. One and really impactful so we strive to have one-on-one time every week with the boys you know in one capacity one form or the other but something that my husband does because that that dad to send time is so crucially important and boys lives like having their dad being involved discipling them just so crucially important so i'm thankful for zack thankful for his intentional investment in the boys but something that he does is every friday he will take one boy out for a special breakfast you know and they just go to like you know tacos or chick-fil-a or something like that it's just really simple. But they go out and they'll have like a devotional they're working through or a specific book on a topic. Or just general discipleship you know it's always ask them how can i pray for you you know he'll get updates on his running list of prayers for them anything going on in your life that's been hard he'll ask them how they're doing how their heart is if there's any questions they have about anything it's like a time where they can ask him. Any and everything you know any question there's nothing off-limits so just that one-on-one time to have with their dad and it is so sweet and the boys look forward to it all week. This morning to go with papa because they still call his mama papa from that's how they stayed in russian and they still call us that and it is just the sweetest and i'm like. Do not grow out of this please it's so cute so they they look forward to their morning with papa and he takes them out and they have their breakfast and zack gets his coffee and then they just talk about life and like i said sometimes they'll work through a little book. It's a great time to dig into more intentional conversations for example our older son caleb he's 13. From 10:11 to 12:13. He has been getting discipled on a you know. One-on-one with stock regularly and it's just giving them the opportunity to talk about things that would be harder in a family setting on a regular basis like zach will work through these really amazing books on topics like sexuality intimacy pornography. Talking about it at an age appropriate level you know as he's grown and just saying like disciplining him in the struggle of sin and less than sexual sin and talking about pornography and what it is and what happens if you see it or someone tries to show it to you and why it's not doesn't honor god why it's not his best for our design and our sexuality like. Deep conversations like that or just understanding sex and intimacy we always want as parents our relationship with our kids to be an open one where they feel comfortable to come and talk to us about anything that's happening in their lives or any questions they have we don't ever want them to feel awkward. Like coming to us to talk about sex or. We want to be the first ones that they come to and the only way that's going to happen is if they feel comfortable they feel like it's a safe place they know that we are not embarrassed about these topics that we're not shy that we have had our own struggles as well being honest with them in an appropriate way you know. For the things that we've struggled with and helping them to see like weenie god's grace just as much like we are striving to honor him in these areas as well just like you and so let's talk about it let's have these conversations so. These type of conversations and so far so good like they they are very open they are not awkward to talk about anything sometimes they'll bring stuff up in the middle of the kitchen and we're all together and i just have to like hold in. My laughter because i'm like we are really talking about this right now but they have no shame they have no fear and i love that about them there's just like a scent like an innocence of this is okay to talk about with the family and i'm all about that so we will continue to do that i actually will go out with the boys one-on-one. Less than zack because i'm with them all the time so i get i actually get a lot of one-on-one time with them a lot of together time with all three of us but i do get a lot of one-on-one time and i try to be intentional to take advantage of conversations when it's just. One boy and me like if we're at a song in a soccer practice for one and i'm sitting with the other things like that happen all the time with me and the boys so i can engage in a lot of one-on-ones but was zach he's at work throughout the day so for him just that intentional time a time they can look forward to with their dad specifically one-on-one it's just been really really sweet so something if you're at the right stage or season with your kids it's just been a huge blessing to us and to them. Okay i'm going to wrap this up here pretty fast but. Something that my mentor actually told me and she is a mom of eight kids all grown now and her kids are just thriving she has great relationships with them so i was just asking her like. How do you like how did you do that how do you still have such great relationships with your kids and. I'm clearly they seem to love each other you seem to have a very like joy-filled intentional family environment and i just said like how did you do that when they were growing up obviously you have so many what did that look like and she said you know discipleship is so important. All of these things are so important. I think sometimes we can overemphasize those things to the point that we forget to cultivate a relationship with our children. We focus so much on the investment and the discipleship and the. Instruction that we forget to cultivate just a fun relationship and she said i think the relationship is. Is 50 of the the outcome of your of your relationship with your child she said it way better than that basically like. Cultivate an actual relationship she's like it needs to be 50/50. 50% instruction 50% cultivating unintentional relationship. And not really. Stuck with me for one but also kind of blew my mind cuz as i was evaluating my days with the boys i realized. I think i am much more like heavy leaning on the instruction and less on like the let's have fun together even though i love to have fun it's just you know when you're with your kids you kind of get in this mode and so. I really took that to heart and i started looking at my days with them and. And looking for opportunities to have fun with them to be intentional to play a game with them. To be the one who initiates some of those things that i know that they love. Every version of uno that walmart sells and they're all about it they don't really ever get tired of it i get a little tired of uno every now and then but they loved it and so i know that it it's so fun for them if i play with them so i will initiate it i will say hey boys let's grab the cards let's play you know like a break during the school day or you know right after we finish school or in the evening if we're just kind of hanging out i will try to make efforts to initiate and they thrive when i do that and i end up having a great time even though you know 100 time we're playing uno it's still fun there's laughter there's joy and i'm just investing in the relationship. You know that's just a simple thing or like on the weekends instead of just like what should we do i don't know i'm tired i don't want to really do anything. I tried you know i go outside and i play basketball with them i go out and watch them shoot their. I go out and i'll watch them and encourage them and wow look at those muscles and just have fun and affirm them so. Trying to and i'm still growing in this but looking for opportunities to build my relationship with them to invest relationally every single day. I know my mentors advice is true i know that it will be the thing that that really in the long run like when they become adults one day like that's what's going to sustain us is that we have this strong relationship. Not just that i was a mom who was intentional with discipleship and instruction but like. I want them to know that i want to be with him that i want to hang out with them that i love them and love spending time with them. That is just one of the last things. Finally wrapping up kind of our day i guess i didn't really get into all the details of our day but many of you know we do homeschool like i said they go four days at home with me one day on wednesday they go to a co-op. And homeschooling has been a huge challenge for me because it is. Big undertaking i applaud every homeschool mom out there. It is hard stuff but it is so rewarding i love it and they love it i'm able to really. Category in each subject because coming over from ukraine they couldn't speak any english and so. You know english they were both at you know like basic kindergarten level but they some of you know caleb had some math so being able to just tailor their school for their various levels in each subject has been really helpful it is helped them thrive in school they love it they love doing school with me so it's just been it's where we're at it's you know we prayed a lot about all the options and that's where the lord landed us that's that's what we felt. The most peace about it made the most sense for their situation and i've just been i've been growing in my role as homeschool mom but i love it and as far as i know we're going to keep doing it we'll see what the lord has for the future but for now. That's where we're at so. We always end our nights with the way we started it so we start with prayer we end with prayer and the boys have a bedtime routine that they follow again i have a laminated chart. Mainly for the purpose of just providing clarity for all of us i just you know. I just love this limited chart so i have another laminated chart that has it says bedtime routine on the top and then it has six things that they need to do to get ready for bed this is a new thing we implemented because we found ourselves like many of you. Chasing our kids at night when it came to bed time and finding ourselves frustrated even angry like okay why aren't they listening like okay boys. Brush your teeth. Clean up your room okay grab your water you know all the things that are like the same things we do every night it just felt like we were constantly having to chase them and remind them and they would get frustrated we would get frustrated and i just thought this is not like a joyful. The routine at night we got to change that so instead of us having to always be the ones to chase them i thought you know. These boys are getting bigger and they can handle responsibility again another opportunity for them to step into responsibility i put it all on them. Every night you're responsible for your bedtime routine. Brush your teeth. They do it in like 3 minutes but i gave him 10 minutes. Grab your water. Get in bed. And i put it on them and i said you know if you get in bed in less than 10 minutes doing all six things then here's your reward you get a stay up a little extra and read in bed you know grab some books have some fun. If you don't then there will be a consequence you will lose the privilege of playing with some of your toys the next day for them they're willing to lego so like okay if you can't handle this responsibility then you will lose this privilege tomorrow so really putting like again that responsibility on them to take ownership. To step it up. Like an independent adult like i'm responsible for myself i've got to make these things happen. So we implemented that and i am telling you it was a night and day difference our bedtime routine became a joyful. Driving time and they love the challenge i am telling you they thrive on the challenge when i say okay boys please start your bedtime routine they run around they get excited they okay i'll grab the waters you know like okay i'll start cleaning the room you brush your teeth they work as a team to like accomplish everything and then they get in bed and they yell you know mom dad and we come in and do our you know the prayer and stuff like that but it's just been really cool to see wow you know once you if you just put the responsibility in the leadership on them and you equip them with what they need to accomplish that and then you praise them and reward them when they do it is amazing the difference it can make so just a little idea there for you if you've been struggling in your kids are a little older and you feel like this is something they could handle then. I encourage you. Get a laminator. So once they're in bed zach and i come in we pray and then we sing amazing grace. Which is one of my favorite hens we have been singing this to them since day one when we were in ukraine the very first day that they came with us and we became a family of four and we put them to bed that night as their parents the very first day we prayed with them and we sang amazing grace and we have done it every single night since and it is something that they. Love they sing along with us now we are all over the place as far as keys we are all in a different key but it is a joyful noise to the lord and they. Love it and i think for them it's just it's such a routine and something that just like they've had since they first got here. It's what bedtime means it means we get in bed and we sing amazing grace and it just kind of. Winds them down calms them down. And just kind of prepares them for sleeping so that's just like a sweet way that we end the evening every night. I all in like i have loved being a mom. I prayed for it for so many years desired it for so long face so many disappointments and. Just things not working out the way that i hope they would and then when god blessed me with these two boys it it has been the sweetest gift and i i love being a mom like i genuinely loved it i look forward to time with my boys now don't get me wrong that doesn't mean i'm always like. Chipper and thriving and just like woohoo like i have hard days and i have times where i feel stressed and i've got to go like this is so hard and i take it to the lord and i try to remember to do that. You know i'll debrief was back at the end of the day like you know if there's conflict or you know. Blah blah blah anyways like i still have a lot of growth and not every moment is butterflies and rainbows but for the most part like i am so thankful for this gift of these boys and i am so blessed to get to be their mom i do view it as a huge privilege and a huge responsibility so i just want to encourage you. If you're a mom if you're in that season of motherhood to really lean into the lord to seek him to recognize that like as moms we need god's grace we need his strength to get through every day and if you're in a season with littles i know as i've talked to my own sister bethany with her little baby and baby who is a toddler and other friends that i have like i know that season where you're sleep deprived and it's all hands on deck and the kids are young there's not much they can really give back or you can't let go ride bikes together i know that has its own unique challenges so again for all of us though going to the lord seeking him. Finding pockets of time where we can spend with the lord and just say god i need you please help me. I'm getting setting our hearts on him that is the fuel that we need to be godly moms for our children sons and daughters to raise them in the lord to even be reminded of bringing the lord up throughout the day it's not going to happen if we are selves are soaking in the word in one form or another. Spiders encourage you to be a woman of the word yourself. And that will naturally overflow into how you raise your children. So i hope this conversation was fun again it was so down to earth maybe maybe encouraging i don't know but that's kind of what motherhood looks like for me right now just in a nutshell and i can't wait to see what it's going to look like over the next few years my son caleb reminds me regularly that he's going to start driving. In two years when he's 15 and i can get his permit and my mouth just hits the floor every time cuz i'm like wait wait wait i just became a mom what you're like talking about driving but of course he's looking forward into the future so the next few years are going to be fun and exciting and challenging and all sorts of new ways but i am just thankful to god for each and every day. All right guys come hang out with me over on instagram at girl define i would love to hear from you any other tips and advice nuggets of wisdom that you've received in your mothering your motherhood journey come share those with me and then if you're single and you're still listening girl you rock. This conversation i know is an applicable to where you're at right now in life but i'm so glad you stayed for the ride that you came along and enjoyed the conversation and one day if god has motherhood in his plans for your future then maybe some of the things i shared could become a couple. Who knows only god knows all right i love you guys can't wait to chat with you all next time. 