Today on the world to find show we are talking about target and what is going on with their take pride section that they now have nationwide in most of their stores this take pride section is causing quite a stir you've probably seen a lot of conservatives a lot of christians posting about it on social media and so today i was out and about running errands and i passed by a target and i was like you know what. I want to go inside the store first hand and see what is going on it was a smaller target store so i wasn't sure if they would have the full-blown pride section but lo and behold i walk in and they do and so i'm jumping on to have a impromptu conversation discussion with you you guys really about what i saw and how as christians we need to think about what is happening in target and what is happening in the society as a whole hey guys it's kristen here and like i said in the intro this is really an impromptu podcast episode i'm recording in a different spot because i just literally got home after going to target and seeing what i saw which i'm going to share a bunch of what i saw with you guys we're going to we're going to dive in we're going to talk all about it i know a lot of people are talking about it but we want to talk about it too we want to weigh in on what's going on we want to. Really help. Just we want to be a part of this conversation and helping all of us think through how to respond to this biblically what does god's word say how should we be thinking about this whole movement something that's becoming so popular so mainstream and what is god's word teach us what is he say how do we have compassion and at the same time stand on truth and so this is a conversation i'm having with you guys i don't have any notes i'm just flying by the seat of my pants because we need to talk about this and so here's what happened i was out and about driving around. Like i said i saw target and i was like okay i see all these posts i see these pictures of what they're selling and all of this celebrating pride and queer and. Gender non-conforming these products and so i was like i'm just going to go check it out and if there's something interesting i'm going to take some videos and so i posted a real which you can go check out on our instagram at girl to find if you want to see some of the actual pictures and videos that i got inside the store. So i walk in. And it is the very first display that you see when you hit the clothing section so. If you're a woman you know you go into target and you might pass by the starbucks and then right after that it's like the clothing section right and this is front and center and what i mean by front and center is like it is the first thing you hit before you even get to the clothing section it's in the aisles so you hit the aisle that leads down to the clothing section and it's all right there and then it extends into the clothing section but it's the first thing you hit and there are huge signs i'm just going to pull up my phone so i can read some of just some of what i saw on their there are a few signs saying take pride community created by and they have all these different names and pictures of these different people that are proud members of the lgbtq plus community and you can scan the barcode to learn more about these people and their designs and. People who helped create this entire line of take pride stuff. Honestly. It wasn't shocking to see. It wasn't really surprising because. If you think about it like this is just an outward expression this is just our society acting on. The natural path that we've been going down as a culture as a society. We have rejected god's design we have said there is no creator there is no designer therefore there's no definer i can define me i can act out on anything i'm feeling. Anyway i want to identify whatever i think about who i am that is who i can be and when we reject the creator then anything goes right there are no limits there are no boundaries there are no parameters anything goes and what we see inside target right now is a perfect. Visual display. Of our hearts and our minds for where we are where we're at as a society i mean we are romans 1 where it talks about you know they have left their creator and worship the creative instead we are making our own rules we are defining ourselves we have rejected the creator and this is the natural place. Where you'll land as a society when you reject your creator so that's really the bigger issue that's happening here or just seeing this now play out in real life. In target stores all across the nation. So huge displays when you first walk in. Something that i did not expect. And i had seen a few pictures but when you see it for yourself in person which i encourage you. If you are listening to this and you haven't been in a target store lately. Go look at it. It is it's. Looking at it's worth taking pictures and. Posting about it like it is it's it's appalling and what i find most disturbing about it were the. The the racks and racks and racks of clothing that were for children and not even just children but babies sections with onesies multiple rows of onesies with things on it and i'll just read a few of the things that i saw that were on the onesies so cute little onesies with flowers and all the colors and it says just be you and feel the love. Another one big bold letters in rainbow colors be proud. Let's see what other onesies oh and then baby bibs too. Baby bibs with all the fun colors i am proud of you always with rainbow flags little tiny baby bibs baby bibs for babies and so that's what i find the most appalling and the most disturbing is that not only are adults. Pushing this agenda pushing this mindset but you know and fully rejecting god altogether and saying we can define ourselves however we want and we will celebrate that and we will affirm that we will. Fight against their own bodies it doesn't matter what we you know what we're made as male or female we will fight against that and we will be whoever we want to be so rejecting the body and going with feelings instead. And what's so sad is that these adults who are creating all these products obviously are now pushing this on little children who are already like they're young right kids don't know very much they're young they're innocent hopefully if they're being told anything. Truthful that if they're born a female they're being told you're a girl or born a boy male you're being told you're a boy but. That's sadly not even happening in so many circles now but here you have these products that parents and whoever wants to buy as gifts give to young children these products that are pushing this narrative this mindset this way of living. That encourages young people it's basically saying hey celebrate this this is good and when the loving adults in your life are telling you something's good and worthy to celebrate something that's beautiful and right and truthful as a young child. You're going to believe it. You believe the trusted adults in your life right i mean think about your childhood i think about mine i'm like what the loving adults in my life whatever they told me the ones i trusted and believed i would take that as fact and so i don't even think we are close to seeing. The confusion the fallout. The struggle the brokenness that we are going to see in the next few generations because we are at a whole new level where babies are wearing bibs babies are wearing onesies celebrating all things lgbtq plus and they are being raised from the time they are babies to be confused about who god created them to be and to celebrate everything that is contrary to how he made humans to function and to flourish how god designed the male and the female so i think the fallout the broken is going to be times a thousand. In and even just a few short years definitely in the next decade so it's so heartbreaking. Put some other things that were definitely shocking but again like not really surprising because this is the natural course this is the natural next step for a society that rejects god is the creator and says we will define ourselves there were bathing suits bathing suits a lot of you guys have seen pictures of this of women's bathing suits that had tuck options and these were advertised on the tags so it's not like something you have to try to figure out like which ones are they you know trying to push for men who save their transgender biological males who still have all the male parts you know which ones are for them it's like very clear like the bathing suits they advertised as having extra room. To fit. I'm the wording is very interesting very strategic okay so here's one let me. I'm going to i'm just looking at my phone and some of the videos so here's what one of the tags said so it advertises its it looks like a women's bathing suit if you're just glancing at it like fully like a woman's bathing suit right. It says tuck friendly is one of the pictures and then the other picture on the tag of this bathing suit says extra crotch coverage. Tuck friendly construction extra crotch coverage and if you look at the bathing suit looks like a women's suit but down in the crotch area it is a little bigger it is a little wider because they're offering that extra crotch coverage for biological males who want to wear. A women's bathing suit and then they had other just like bikini bottoms that were the same they had tops that looked like. Bikini tops but more like athletic sports bras kind of style but they were bathing suits i think and they on those it has two different pictures one of them says light binding effect so showing some arrows that are going across like you're binding the chest and then right next to it it's a picture of two hands holding a heart that says thoughtfully fit on multiple body types and gender expressions. So again. Totally embracing the confusion totally encouraging people who are confused about their gender to say it's absolutely okay like no problemo we've got you covered with the gear we affirm whoever you think you are whatever you're feeling like yes yes yes yes yes it's all just applause here. Some of the other shirts that are right in line with all of this thinking with this pride line there was a pink shirt that i pulled and i took a picture of it go check it out on instagram. But it's of a woman almost like a cartoon type of character like a comic book character and she's it's a picture of her kind of laying down dreaming and on top in bold letters it says busy thinking about girls. A woman. Busy thinking about girls. A shirt. For young women to buy like for teen girls to buy so here again it's normalizing this idea that it's perfectly natural and normal and okay and even cool. That's perfectly normal that's perfectly okay in fact it's like i said it's it's kind of cool that is the vibe that you're getting from this shirt that girls are in bed and think about girls girls like girls boys like boys girls like boys and girls it doesn't matter it's all the same that is the message that we're getting here. Other shirts another like long sleeve kind of crop top tea. With big letters on the front not a phase. So not a phase this is who i am this is who i will always be. But we know that's not true because we see. We see people who are buying into all of these lies buying into the confusion celebrating it and then growing a little older and going. Okay well maybe that's not who i am who am i and then they're faced with this crisis of who am i they're feeling things different than they were abigail schreyer's book irreversible damage she talks all about this this transgender craze amongst young women who are buying into the slide because it's popular a lot of young women are transitioning and so it's a social contagion she calls it and it's something many young women are getting older and then rethinking like well maybe i was just a tomboy maybe i wasn't actually a boy you know obviously they're not a boy they're a female but they're thinking you know i. I got all these surgeries that's the irreversible damage things that. Completely destroying your parts and you're not able to go back you can't it's irreversible and that's exactly what abigail sure is talking about so for many this is a phase it's not forever. Cute little t-shirt celebrated it's who you are. It's just going to lead to so much devastation. So much confusion. Something i thought was kind of comical was the section. Of pride pet apparel. And there is a pet shirt a crop top in fact. That you can buy for your pet. Crop top you know could go either way dog or cat. And the pet apparel. Big bright letters colorful with rainbows i am proud of you always. We're now putting. We are now putting clothing on our pets that affirm who we want to be. Who we think we are. And we're putting words in the mouth of our pets that say i am proud of you always am proud of you affirming. And you know what's really ironic about this is that pets are not confused about their gender. Pets are not confused they get it. Pets know when they're a male pet they know and they act out. On their male instincts. When a pet is a female they function like a female pet and they act out on their female instincts their female biology their female nature they're not confused. I have a girl dog a female dog her name is sadie. She's about to turn 9 in a couple months she is the cutest little maltipoo ever. She has not been confused once about the fact that she's a female and she acts like a female dog would in those those things that female dogs go through. So dogs aren't confused but we're putting our crop tops our pet crop tops on them. Our gender confusion it's just so sad so there were a lot of other oh yeah more onesies with all the rainbows all the things and then in the very front like that section i talked about when you first walk in and you hit the aisle like the actual main aisle of target that goes all the way down to the end that's where all of the initial like the first displays are. And they had things like my queer a guided journal. They had cards that say i'm so happy that you're queer. And then they had a queer tarot an inclusive deck and guidebook. Queer version. So you can just see the. The lack of god. I think is the best way i can put this the complete absence. Of god in any of this. In fact i didn't see this in the store i went to but i saw other people posting shirts and apparel from target from their website. Of shirts that were praising satan. I'm talking about how satan is proud. Of who i am. Satan is proud of my pronoun you know things like that with like little goat looking demon. Graphics on the front of it. So disturbing. But it's not surprising right because when we reject the creator the one true god who made us. Then yeah it's only natural that we're going to turn to satan that we're going to find affirmation from some sort of being. And it's very clearly not the god of light. But the false god the demon god the one who rebelled against god because of his pride. And got kicked out of heaven and i was on a mission to kill steal and destroy a scripture says it of course it makes sense. That satan. And his affirmation would be all over this. Because it is demonic it is simple it is absolutely against god's design. And that's that's the spiritual battle i think that's going on that doesn't often get talked about is that. Satan is out to kill steal and destroy us and he knows that the man and the woman the two genders were created by god in the garden from the beginning there was no confusion it was perfect god had a blank slate he chose to create one man and one woman he put them together in marriage and said this union is a reflection ultimately of christ in the church we see that later in ephesians 5. Gender matters and god decided how gender would function best how it would flourish and it's a male it's a female coming together in relationship to create a union to become a new family and turn into a lifelong covenant and from there enjoy the blessings and the beauty of sexual intimacy of creating a family of generations coming from that family. And ultimately we see in scripture that that family that gender that marriage none of it is ultimately about us it's not about us and our glory it is ultimately about our creator about god our maleness or female this ultimately point back. To god to christ and the church that's what the male and female point to and so if you can imagine as god's enemy satan his greatest enemy. What is it going to go after. What is he going to attack. He's going to go after the. People that god made in his image in his likeness that ultimately point back to the gospel. That ultimately muir. The image of their creator. And his plan of salvation. And that is exactly what's happening and our society and i believe strongly that's why satan is in the middle of all of this like literally he's on t-shirts that target is selling saying that satan affirms and approves of what we're doing well yeah absolutely he does. 100 % he approves and affirms and celebrates and cheers this on because it is absolutely against god's design for humankind it is against our good our flourishing it is against who we were created to be in the image of god and satan loves. He wants to destroy us he wants to kill us. And it's happening and it is so sad. And so. Set of ending on a note of gloom and doom. Because this is so sad. I think it's important for us to. To get back to what god says about gender what god says about sexuality kind of end on an encouraging note. And remember that as christian women we we need to be on the front lines. Of offering compassion. Relationship grace and drawing these people in because we're all broken in one way or another we are all sinners in desperate need of god's saving grace that is true for every single one of us none of us are better than the other. The only difference is is that. We are all sinners and there are those of us who recognized and see our need for a savior that we are not enough that we need jesus christ his blood his death on the cross to cover our sins to forgive us to redeem us to make us new and we know that newness of life is only found in christ and then there are those who are sinners who are not repentant who are not recognizing god as their creator who are turning to other means to find the meaning of life. Define identity to find purpose to find happiness but it cannot be found outside of our creator it just can't there's no such thing. Maybe temporary temporal. Maybe something that will make you feel happy in a moment in a season but it can't last because there's no true lasting happiness outside. So a few of the things actually in our book sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart. A few of the things that we talked about is we run through some of the biggest lies that our culture is. Presenting when it comes to our sexuality and i just want to read a couple of them because these are lies that even when we wrote this book a few years ago we wanted to bring clarity to the confusion about sex and intimacy and even lust and how as christian women we can fight against the sin but embrace god's beautiful design. And i feel like this book is more relevant than ever because of everything that's going on and so some of the lies that we unpack in this book the cultural lies about our sexual design. The first one the biggest one is sexual identity is determined by personal desires. So basically it's this lie that. Who you feel you are is who you really are it doesn't matter. If you were born a boy if you were born a girl your biology has nothing to do with who you really are because the true you can only be known by you it can only be discovered by you only you can know the depths of your heart and who you really are listen to your desires follow your heart. That is who you are. That is what we're being told by society that is a huge lie and something that's so damaging because you may have strong feelings and i'm not. I'm not saying that there aren't people who are genuinely confused about whether or not. I have the parts of a boy or at the parts of a girl but i don't feel that way i don't feel that i am and what's really sad is that rather than being. Helped and encouraged in. Counselors really work with these young people and and help them understand like your biology is good. It's not something that you have to hate you don't have their happiness isn't only found on the other side of hating your biology and embracing the opposite because that's how you feel there could be a beautiful balance of saying i don't love. My biology or who you know this this sex that i am but that is who i am my biology counts for something it matters because that is how i was made. And we're believing the slide at happiness can only be found for people who are confused about their gender can only be found on the other side of hating their biology and embracing the opposite. But that is such a lie because who god created us to be. That is his good plan and purpose for us. God that and that goes back to to rejecting god is the creator if we reject god as the creator then of course we reject biology as any sort of fact or truth. But if we embrace god as our creator. And we believe that he's a good father that he's a good god. And we struggle with embracing. The biology that we have. And we say. You made me this way i am struggling with this. But your ways are good. Your ways are right your ways are true. The body that you gave me it's not insignificant. It is so significant it is informing me of who i am. And the fact that i have a female body is telling me truth about my identity. I can find my identity by looking at my body and striving to accept. Who you created me to be. As a woman. And as i strive to accept the body of giving me the identity you've given me the gift of womanhood that you've given me. Then maybe as time goes on. I will learn to love that i will learn to embrace that i will learn to thrive in that because that is your good design for me. But that is not the message that anyone is being told and what is so sad. About this display and target this massive take pride section. Is that it is a celebration. With like party central you know they don't have streamers but it feels that way when you walk up to the section it is bright it is colorful it screams partay of affirmation this is where it's at. And so what is going to happen i believe and what is going to make this like i said at the beginning. More confusing more convoluted more broken over the next 5 to 10 years for our country for the world is that there are young people. Who are seeing these displays walking into target who have no. Confusion. They have no confusion about their gender about their identity their perfectly fine. They see the affirmation they see the price they see the fun they see the party and they're like oh. I kind of want to be a part of that. Like that's kind of where the cool kids are. That is the vibe that you get when you walk up to this don't believe me go to the next target near you check it out you will see exactly what i'm talking about go check out our instagram at girl define you'll see the videos that i posted it is party central. And so what's going to happen is a lot of young people. Who are not questioning their gender. Who are not laying about at night thinking about girls. Who are not confused. They are going to become very confused because it's enticing it's a luring it is colorful it's bright. It's beautiful in many ways. And i think a lot of young people are going to be asking questions about themselves. They're encouraged to they're told this is where the cool people are this is what's being celebrated. Come on come on in the water's fine you know like let's go and i think a lot of people are going to be really confused a lot of young people are going to be jumping on board because of that. So that is one of the biggest lies. Sexual identity is determined by personal desire and then you know i'm not going to get into this but another lie marriage is a union between any two partners that is a huge lie when we. In 2015 as a nation rejected marriage is between a man and a woman legalized in nationwide being between any two people. Have any genders we rejected god's design and this is a snowball effect this is where it leads it leads to more and more distortion confusion about who we are. Because when we reject god and his ways and his design. Anything goes and it will not lead to human flourishing it will not it cannot it is against our creators good design for us it will lead to broken this and more confusion more depression. It's already happening and it's going to continue happening. Turn on something encouraging i think we should quickly talk about god's design and we did talk about i've been kind of talking about it through this whole thing but some of the points we bring up in sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart just so important to remember. As christians so important that we are going to the word of god. That we are not basing our beliefs. Our opinions on our own thoughts but we're going to god's word and we're saying god what do you say we're going back to genesis we are reading these these passages over and over we're searching the scriptures from beginning to end and saying. What is your good plan. And the defining everything about what we believe. About who we are about our identity according to god's word and nothing else. Some of the truths that we unpack. In another chapter titled for biblical truths about our sexual design is one sexual identity is a god a sign reality. And i've already said that many times so far. That are sexual identity is a god assigned reality. And imagine the freedom and the clarity that would bring alone. If we embraced this truth as a nation. If we embrace the truth that god is the creator that he made each one of us and the sex that we were born with. That is the sex god chose for us. That is who we are that our biology speaks to our identity. And then recognizing that first step of okay i'm a woman or i'm a man i'm a boy i'm a girl and choosing to embrace that and believe that choosing not to get confused about that because god has given it to us as a gift. And then digging in scripture and saying and god what do you say it means to be a woman. What do you say it means to be a man. Talk about the confusion being cleared up we now have clarity on who we are man or woman and now we have instruction on what it means to live life as a man or woman. Given to us by the creator. I mean how awesome is that. And it is so heartbreaking it is devastating. That is who i feel the worst for i feel so heartbroken over the young people. Babies. So much confusion when there doesn't have to be when god has such a good design. So that's the first line. So many others or sorry that's the first truth. Another truth marriage is a covenant between a man and a woman. Another truth from scripture from our creator. In genesis that clears up so much confusion. That love is not love. That there is a. Way of loving that's orderly and right and truthful and beautiful and good that every feeling we have. We shouldn't follow the following our heart is actually not the best plan but looking in scripture and saying god what did you create guiding our feelings are emotions our romantic thoughts guiding them by the truth of god's word. And asking him to help us do that in our struggles in our confusion. Walking alongside other christians christian counselors. Taking these struggles to god's word and then a lot realigning our hearts our thoughts. Conclusions. To his word. Allowing him to inform us and not the other way around that is so important and i could go on grab the book sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart to take a deep dive into god's design for sexuality it is needed more than ever if you want a really great book on womanhood grab our first book girl defined god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity. The one who designed us is the one who gets to define us we say that again and again here at girl define and it rings true now more than ever there is beauty there is life there is functionality there is clarity when we embrace god's design when we look to the creator rather than rejecting him and so i pray i pray this i pray you will join me in this that we will be a generation of women who stand firm on the truth of god's word. Who engaged with others in a gracious biblically loving way. To reach them with the gospel to show them the hope of our savior the clarity that can be found in his design. I pray that we will not grow weary of standing on truth. As our culture rushes over the waterfall. Waterfalls edge niagara falls crashing down chasing after this sexual autonomy. We will stand firm on the truth of god's word. No matter the cost. No matter. What may happen to us. To our opportunities. To our platforms i pray we will stand for on the truth of god's word because he. Is where purpose life identity hope salvation. It can only be found in him. Thank you guys for joining me for this impromptu conversation i would love to hear from you i want to hear your thoughts on this have you been to a target store what do you think about what's going on what do you see as the deeper issue how can we engage culture with the gospel with the hope of the gospel come hang out with me over on at or on instagram and if you appreciate this conversation and want to see more of this type of stuff than please leave us a five-star review over on spotify or apple leave us a comment wherever you're watching come hang out with us over on instagram and let's keep this conversation going. 