We are answering your most pressing questions about sex and now this is a conversation more specifically for our married women but if you're single you can totally listen along have you ever had a question as a married woman like about sex about intimacy about that area of your life but you don't know of anyone else in the world is struggling with that in their relationship or you just feel. Awkward to ask you're like oh i don't even know if i want to say these words this just feels really uncomfortable and i don't want people to think i'm a weirdo well girl we are going there you actually send it a ton of questions to help us with this conversation and we are asking everything in this conversation to bring it to light because if we're not willing to talk about this stuff as christian married women who will i mean we don't want to google this stuff let's get some good answers from someone who has. Basically had all the preparation all the studying all the conversations she's bringing us the best of the best when it comes to answers i consider her a sex expert and this is going to be a conversation that will help you that will help your marriage let's jump in what's up y'all it's bethany here and i am so honored to get to basically host this conversation with francie winslow someone who i admire so much and someone who i just think is amazing and i've learned so much from her. Podcast heaven in your home and i just grown so much as a woman now if you hear these noises in the background. If you hear a little baby noises that's because. I have had my baby girl audrey and she is with me right now as i do this intro and you can just hear her making her adorable little baby noises so get ready cuz there will be an episode coming on my whole birth story everything to do with that she was born on december 23rd and she is just absolutely precious but this might become more normal part of some of the content i put out with little sweet baby noises in the background so hopefully you're okay with that without further ado let's jump into my conversation with francis. Francie thank you so much for joining me on the girl to find show i am a huge fan and anyone who follows me or girl to find probably knows that i am such a huge fan of you and heaven in your home your podcast and your ministry and just everything you do to help a married women and single women. All of that but for the few who may not know you can you just share a little bit about yourself who you are where you're from your family all the things. Yeah so i am a mother of six my husband and i live with our kiddos right outside of washington dc. And so it's a busy time of life our oldest is 14 almost 15 and our youngest is four. And so we're just doing all the things i'm like a professional uber driver that doesn't get tipped get paid i like you know get paid and hugs and i appreciate that most of my teenagers the sweet it's a sweet stage of a lot of activity but in my windows of free time i really get a lot of life from doing the podcast called heaven in your home. That where we talk about sex marriage in the mission of god and how it's all feeds into the big picture of god's heart to bring heaven to earth. That our bodies have meaning that our bodies are theological our gender has meaning and that actually married sex is a really powerful supernatural gift. And it's kind of my journey i'm not a sex therapist i'm not a counselor i'm just a wife and a mom and really a lover of jesus who has been on this journey to find his heart and this and realizing that he's actually calling me to do this more and so i'm trying to say yes to him this is not my dream i didn't always think i'd be in this conversation but it has definitely been a sweet journey because i've seen him healing me and i've seen him healing others just by speaking his truth. You and your husband like your marriage. Your sex life cuz you've been very open on having in your home kind of like that journey so can you give us the snapshot. Of kind of where you were when you first got married and where you are today and just the growth that's taken place. Yeah so oddly enough when i look back at my story i realized well god was writing a story because i was in high school and just really decided i want to be captivated by jesus it was really him asking me will you be captivated by me more than anything else and of course i had like a really cute high school boyfriend who was in a christian band and he was like what's captivated your heart what do you think about when you wake up in the morning when you go to bed at night and i'm like it's him and i want to be that and so my journey with having a wholehearted love for jesus started young. And bled into my sexuality because i realize i'm going to give this boy to god and i'm going to follow him and i'm going to let go of him and i'm going to give you my whole heart and so it was right in the purity culture and i was for sure raised in the thick of the purity culture but i don't think that. I think it was more just a silence and so when i got married at a very young age at age 20 it had been kind of just. Yeah i was 20 don't do it don't do it don't do it was the theme and when i got married or it came to get married i'm like i got to do it and i don't know how to do it cuz i just shut it down for so long and i don't know not only know how to do it but i do not know how to do it i don't know how to think about it which was probably more of the barrier was i had just kind of disintegrated myself disconnected myself from my body and my femininity because i thought it was a little bit dangerous or a little bit of a. A stronghold for others for guys for me and i really just wanted to love jesus and so i thought i love him with my whole heart but what about my body and what about my genitals and what about my femininity and what about nakedness how do i find god in that and how do i be okay with that because it had been such a non conversation so i think that was where i started it required a lot of inner healing work on a lot of work with the holy spirit to identify lies that had believed about my body. Places where i was really agreeing with shame rather than god's proclamation that you are good your body is good you're fearfully and wonderfully made i had to figure out what i was agreeing with. In my heart and took a lot of work to be able to press into god and that and also to share that with wyatt and we ended up realizing that sex is a big deal to him he was a division one athlete so he had like lots of testosterone at that time it was i didn't know that one basketball player and so he kind of had this fear of like i hope i'm not too much for her like what if because he was aiming for purity he was really trying to hold on tight for marriage and got it redeemed his past and so he was new the power of a sex drive but also was a little bit scared of like is this going to be too much for my wife i don't want to overwhelm her or stress her out with what feels like such a real physical need or desire and we can talk about need later but that was kind of where we started and so we ended up spending a lot of time on our pink interlink couch which if you listen to episode 1 in my podcast i tell this whole story but just asking god lord come in where he's afraid where i'm afraid where he's insecure where i'm insecure. And so it was months of allowing god to sift through the issues of our heart lots of repentance lots of uprooting lies and asking god to plant seeds of truth in those places and then. I think what was powerful is that we didn't just stop on the couch to pray we went to the bedroom and we made what was spiritual in our relationship physical so the spiritual oneness we were experiencing we then went and made love and it was a compound effect that we realized there's so much power in oneness and nobody had told us that we kind of heard it's a man's need and in directly kind of it's a woman's duty and we're trying to figure that out but it was like god was blowing us out of the water with a better story and reminding us there's a better story here than a man's need and a woman's duty there's a higher narrative there's a more beautiful picture and there's actually a tangible goodness that happens in your home when a husband and a wife pursue oneness and self-giving love and mutual pleasure and there is something of a heaven and earth overlap that happens and so that was kind of our journey where sniffing that out the first few years realizing there's something powerful here. We were having a lot of sex and we were realizing the more the more the more we are pursuing this intimacy spiritually and physically. Tenderness this goodness and it kind of reset all of those old patterns and from then i got really deep into studying the theology of this and then the physiological nature of sex and all of the stuff so that was that was where we began and we are 17 years into marriage and it just keeps getting better it the organisms get better the freedom gets better the surrender the trust and the power of it the power of it to be like a high high and like so fun and passionate and. We've known times that are so low and we are so broken and we've had physical sickness we've had trauma in our home and sex has been a gift in all of those things it's been there when we've been unwell when we've been well when we needed comfort when we've been celebrating when we've been like both have covid and cough drops in our mouths and like we're going to go ourselves together like in the hard times and when real life hits sex has been a powerful gift to be able to remind us of that garden dream in genesis one that god places image on the body of a male and female. Be fruitful multiply and take dominion. From a place of oneness and unity and love. Disciple makers in the world as workers whatever we're doing has a lot to do with our pursuit in our home of unity and oneness and so it's in the highs and the lows and there's just so much fruit with it and so much evidence of god's goodness through it. And just hearing you talk. Yes you know the way you talk so freely and openly like i'm used to it now because i've listened to. Like probably every single one of your episodes you know every single one of your episodes on your heaven in your home podcast and anyone i talked to who's like getting married or about to get married i'm like you have to start with episode 1 and listen all the way through but just hearing you know you talk so freely about sex and the body and the spiritual and all of that. And freely and bring in all of the beautiful aspects like the emotions and the body and the hard times and the great times and all of that and so i know. The sisterhood right now is there listening they're like whoa you know this is amazing and they actually submitted a ton of questions for you and we could literally talk for. You know 5 hours about all these but i tried to pick the ones that kept coming up so different people were asking the same ones and. You are the perfect person to answer these questions cuz they are very direct they are very open and they're all anonymous so they were able to ask them no names attached and i know these apply to a lot of women so we are actually going to jump in and get your wisdom on some of these questions so question number one that we got from one of the girl to find sisterhood members she says where did my libido go the second i got married i was a virgin and i'm like. Yes like why you hear that that happens like oh i have the super high sex drive and then i got married and i'm like okay i never want this again so what's your take on that that breaks my heart because it's so common and especially i think sadly. Maybe in the christian world there's a few things happening i think one is we kind of have this narrative like if you wait then it will be great and so it's kind of setting you up for something that may not be realistic because newlywed sex is not as great as 10 years in as 20 years and you know if you keep growing because you keep growing in trust in vulnerability and healing and those are the things that are required for great sex you have to have trust you have to be able to be naked and on ashamed you have to be able to articulate what it is that you're really afraid of and that other person can know you in that place that intimacy and then sex is a type of intimacy that compliments that and make that even better so all that to say just knowing okay having a great sex life is a process and it's not going to be like. The best sex you've ever imagined and could ever have the first night or even the first month or the first year because i remember also as a newlywed. Things are coming up right after the wedding i'm like wow who did i marry why did i do this you know like what what did i just do because suddenly. It is just so vulnerable and you realize. I have nothing in between me and this person. And our hearts are laid bare and so we ran to jesus i'm not sure what you do if you don't run to jesus but we ran to jesus to help us navigate that and for him to be recovering together but back to what happened to my leader the second libido the second get married i think one of the things we do when we date is we make out and we have passionate like fondling or whatever line you have drawn you feel a lot of arousal because you can't go all the way and so you're doing all these other things that your body actually needs for arousal your body needs time for arousal it needs kissing it needs some neck kissing and needs some caressing it needs time for your vagina to lubricate it needs time for blood flow to come into your genitals so that you open up and you soften and you are ready for entry and you have that desire of like i want you in me okay we're just. So that is the feeling when you're making out you a lot of foreplay but sometimes i feel like when we get married it's almost like we just switch for all of that and we just go for sex and we're like well that's kind of elementary and now we just got to go have sex and if we lose all that foreplay and all of that fun intimacy before and then we suddenly are just like all about the deed. Aroused we need to have incorporate all of that i think that's one big part of it i think another part is just being able to be open and honest with where you are and know that it's a process and have expectations lowered a little bit that it's not going to be the best thing you've ever experienced the first time because you're learning something new. And i think also just the process of getting to know what feels good. And that was not that great no that's totally fine and that's totally normal you get to grow it and i think that's one thing i emphasize a lot in my podcast is the gift of growing your sex life it is not an automatic it's something that requires work and it requires getting to know your body. And sometimes that takes some practice to get to know your body and what feels good and also how to communicate what feels good and so that's part of the joy of it is that you get to grow it's not an automatic thing. Yeah okay so i have to ask because you said. Get to know your body and that i'm telling you like until i heard you talk about that i've been married for 4 years until i heard you talk about that i just thought like okay that is like terrible you would never like how do you even get to know your body what is that like no no no no no no no you know so can you explain what you're talking about and how that can be helpful. Yes okay so i again i'm not a counselor i'm not a sex service i'm just going to tell you my story so. I think. So here's the breakdown is that we spend a lot of years believing that masturbation is wrong and so any self touching is wrong don't do it and there is no stranger a that says masturbation is wrong however there are lots of reasons to be very cautious about. What it is to be involved in that act and so that is for another conversation but i think self-cultivation is what i like to call it is different than masturbation. Masturbation is touching for like for stimulus and for orgasm by yourself for yourself in a secretive isolated way. Self-cultivation is a way to get to know your feminine body so that a you love it and you think it's good and you like it and you're comfortable with it and you are aware of it and you're educated about what is where and what is down there i had no education about my body no idea what was down there i mean i hear a lot of women get married like i didn't know how to clitoris the husband doesn't know and so if you don't know about your body it's hard to be able to share your body it's kind of like you have a really special gift but it just stays in the corner and you never even opened it and so you can't really share it with anyone because you were too scared of it and your body is a gift and god is giving it to us so we don't have to be scared of it and so self-cultivation. Is simply just kind of like self-education you can think of it that way getting to know your body you can touch yourself down there in order to be like okay this stroke this way feels good and then the point is then you go to teach your husband. But he can't read your mind and sometimes in the moment there's a little bit of like awkwardness and it's sometimes a blessing to him and this is something you can talk about with your husband is not something you do secretly or alone but self-cultivation is just a word that i like is kind of general and beautiful and it's a way to cultivate growth. In the cultivate a reality that your body is good. And it is a good gift that you don't need to be scared of. Sometimes i found a lot of comfort in just being in the bathroom alone like taking a bath or a shower and just even blessing my body while i'm bathing and thank you god for my beautiful body and all the ways that it serves me and my family my arms that hold babies my breasts that have fed babies my tummy that's carried you know and even if you haven't had babies your body is working to serve others your body is working at the five god all the time and your hands are serving your feet are serving and sometimes i think we just feel really disconnected from a few parts of our body that we're afraid of and so if you can get a shower and bless your body and say god thank you for the beauty of this body. That's another step into getting to know your body is even to come into agreement with the fact that it's good. All of what you just described for me. Oh no no no no no no no no you know and so when i started listening to you and then just digging deeper and digging into resources you recommended that has been such a helpful practice and just a way to not like okay i'm just going to i go into you know the bedroom and hear the things that i'm like this robot it's like no like i am a body and i have these beautiful aspects of me and i have so much to offer and i have so much to bring and i don't even have to wait for him to like okay know everything and okay he better touch me here and he better not touch me there and oh now he doesn't know what to do you know it's like i can bring so much. There is so much confidence and more security and even more of my own like eroticism like i have something to bring and this is a good thing so i'm really really glad you touched on that i do have another question though that i honestly have no idea what you're going to say to this i have thought about this but i i don't know i mean i've only been married for four years like i said you've got a lot more years on me so someone asked about sex toys and intimacy in long distance marriages specifically a military wife her husband is. Serving overseas. Rules are there guidelines how does that work. Okay so when we we as christians are dying for permission about everything and i think it's true like this okay i don't know we're so afraid we're so afraid. And i just want to even encourage you to bring that to the lord lord i'm so afraid of getting it wrong i'm so afraid of. First of all. Because i like our friend julie slattery talks like i don't want to tell you what to think i want to i want to hopefully inspire you how to think or how to engage with god. He is your maker. So that being said we know from 1 corinthians 10 that all things are permissible not all things are beneficial i think that's a holy spirit conversation lord has this been official for our marriage does this help us gain intimacy. Is this violating any of the scriptural principles like being outside of a husband and a wife like no other people need to be involved that's obviously a no-no and then everybody i feel like at this point is very common sense that pornography is like poison like that is not wise 100% that was. Never got the intention to be. You know encountering sexuality outside of your covenant and also is just terrible for your brain is terrible for your sexual response it's bad on every count so all those things said let's think about sex toys and i'll just tell you bethany you might be getting free by listening to me but i find other women who are freer than me and i'm like leaning them cuz i still have a ways to go my freedom journey. But i interviewed a woman recently named phyllis hill phyllis and glen hill they run a miniature connection codes and she's got more freedom than me so you can look at her cuz i was like and we were talking about this very thing about sex toys and she was like crazy think about it and i can share with you my personal journey too but she's like think about it as sex tools instead of sex tools. But the truth is like we can be really creative and we can have lots of fun in the bedroom and as long as it is mutual and we're both enjoying it and it's building intimacy the answer is yes like you do. What is honoring and loving and connecting for your union and it may not be the same thing that somebody else would enjoy but there's no shame in trying and i'm going to give you some examples of sex tools that might be an on-ramp. Sometimes changing your position. Is really helpful in whether you're pregnant or whether you are just wanting some variety or trying different positions for lots of reasons there's no rule on positions you try a million positions is so fun to try to help you. Amazing and hilarious and fun and adventurous but sometimes your hips can sink if like you're trying to prop your hips up so there is a sex pillow called the liberator wedge and so it's technically a sex toy but it is really helpful because it props your hips up and you stay in that position and it is awesome because you're suddenly like whoa i can feel that stuff i've never felt before because your hips are position and you might even be able to get closer depending on your side like some my husband's like six three and i'm five five so you know and it's just helpful to have different options for different positions so upset pillow vibrators are common conversation there's nothing immoral or illegal about vibrators i will say this. I did not use a vibrator for 15 years of our marriage. It has been introduced to our marriage at this point i really appreciate it but it is a tool and it's not the only way we connect. I'm glad personally i didn't use one for a long time because of this it gave us time to learn each other. Because it is really powerful and it doesn't require him to learn what feels good or how to bring you to orgasm and it doesn't require you to know your body because it does the work for you and it kind of takes it just is one step removed and so i would say vibrators are amazing if you've been married for a long time and you haven't reached orgasm they can help you figure out a little bit more minutes maybe there was just a little bit of help needed there. We introduced a vibrator in a time of sickness and so we needed to be able to enjoy more intimacy and it's been a tool that i like but you can try any sex tool and keep it forever keep it for one time there's a lot of cheap things out there that are not that really really not that great or effective but could be fun and so i think we don't have to be afraid and if you are afraid talk to the lord. And talk to a trusted friend and say where's the sphere stemming from because i think that's the bigger conversation is why am i so afraid and is there shame or fear. At work in my relationship with my body and my marriage and my sex life because it is not it's not meant to be a place where fear and shame are and if they are there that's totally fine that's what the holy spirit does he comes in and lumens and it's part of us being in touch with our sexual story. And that's so big in terms of walking in the fullness is we have to know like where did i come from and why do i believe what i believe and what informed me and what experiences actually really shaped me whether it was from the world or my wounds or. Changes the entire perspective and outlook like oh i can actually make these decisions and i can like we can be careful about this for ourselves like. It's just common sense so many ways that is extremely helpful you did mention illness and using a vibrator during that time someone had a specific question about how to deal with like a low libido and just like sexual like disconnect during an illness so. Intimacy during that time. Well there are lots of types of illnesses that can affect sex life your sex life and a lot of different ways and i will just say that sometimes i think we have minimized what we define sex as one act the p and the v if you know what i mean like that is sex but the sexual intimacy can look like a lot of things let's say you're on pelvic wrist and you are having a baby and you are struggling and you can't i don't know if that's your story or not i know you're getting ready to have a baby but many people are. Right right and so maybe post postpartum or maybe in your pregnancy you can't have sex or whatever but how do you stay sexually intimate well you have like head to toe access like your whole body is beautiful and women have 11 or more erogenous zones all throughout their whole body. I did like a bunch of sessions this summer cuz i just kept going i'm like our bodies are so amazing. Naked and unashamed love that we have that only we share in this season if there's illness so it may be that has been unable to have an erection there might be some medical problems there might be depression and anxiety if he's on medicine for that that could be a problem in that case you might want to like hey we're going to stimulate each other in different ways or you can simulate you and that can be very gratifying for him because he doesn't feel like he's a failure or you can give each other sensual massage so i would say always trying to find ways to stay sexually connected because there are so many hormones that happen even through our body by god's good design of oxytocin and dopamine and vasopressin which all are bonding hormones and make you feel close to your spouse and i'm not even joking like we've been sick this whole semester of just common colds viruses it's just the viral load in her house is so thick you just don't want to come over having six kids it doesn't stop but. Being intimate because we we fight for it because it's about connection. It's not about a sexual release necessarily it's not about a check mark on our calendar cuz we should. We choose connection because of how it shifts the atmosphere of our relationship and our home. Used to do we found ways to be sexually intimate because it matters to our connection and it bears fruit in terms of our race for each other our softness to each other even our ability to emotionally connect is often enhanced by sexual connection that we've had because it feeds on each other it's not one above the other it's all connected and in a marriage specifically there's so many things pulling at you you can always be talking about the kids the schedule the bills but this sexual connection kind of turns out like dims all those other things and the lights come up on love and closeness and that is powerful especially in a season of illness when you need that you need that comfort and that close so i would just say think outside of the box know that there are a lot of ways to be sexually intimate get good at doing hand jobs on each other and using your whole body is to be able to say i love you we are together in this and we are expressing love and pleasure in the best way we can right now and this probably won't ever but we're leaning into connection now. Yeah that's so good okay specifically let's jump into orgasms because that i feel like is especially in christian circles nobody wants to say that word and even people who will like dm me or even you know post this in the question box they. Someone who just got married for years ago and i felt like i did have access to a lot of good resources i look back and i'm like. There was so little talk about this and even in some of the married woman i talked to it's like the orgasm conversation was just like okay that's we just don't talk about that and so i appreciate the women who have asked specific questions about this one asked how to learn to orgasm and feel more pleasure she's feeling the connection with her husband maybe that emotional connection or spiritual connection but that physical. Pleasure she's just not experiencing so for the woman who has never had an orgasm how can you learn that and how do you even know what to look for. Okay well i will give you some of my tips but i'm going to give you a book straight up right now this is called your orgasm by bonnie burns she's one of the women on the christian sex. Is christian sex chat. Do you know that christian that website chat anyway it's like 45. I think they're older women and i appreciate it so much. She has tons of wisdom. So if you don't know anything it really begins with. It begins with your mindset. It begins with understanding a you have to come into agreement if your body is good because our bodies are connected to our brains and our brains inform our bodies of. And if we're tight and if we're afraid and anxious our brains are going to shut down and will be anxious. Doing a few kegels to kind of get blood flow to your genitals realizing okay this body is good if you do a kegel if you don't know what that is it's when you're peeing and you stop midstream. That's the motion of a kegel. An orgasm is like a really fast series of those and it's so fast those contractions are so fast that you feel a ton of pleasure. But there's a lot of other things happening but the contraction is the fastest it's like ultra fast squeezing of those muscles and then also stimulation of your clitoris that is attached to thousands of nerve endings it is recent and this is not just a christian thing that any the world doesn't talk about women's sexual. Health and the new york times came out with an article just this fall that was like the clitoris has been rediscovered basically even the worldly doctors all the studies mostly sexual studies have been done on men. Very little is any sexual studies on women and even the clitoris and so there's been new studies done and it shows they used to be 8000 nerve endings now there's realized 10000 nerve endings in the clitoris. A man's penis has 4,000 so. The good news is and the good news of how god designed you as a pinnacle of creation as a woman in the garden who was called eve life-giving beautiful woman you have so much capacity for pleasure it's actually. There is not a limit to how much pleasure you can have. Are good god designed you that way. Women are able to have multiple orgasms which means like you climax and then you take a few minutes and you can do it again and you do you could go on and on and on and on that is the generosity of god. And how much goodness there is for you all that said it's worth taking the time to learn your body. Because you were designed to receive that and i just have to throw this in this theology of the body our body and our anatomy declares something true about us. Shows that we are made to receive. And if you're not sure about that think about the shape of your vagina. Your body is made to receive is made to receive seeds of life is made to receive pleasure. And so it's part of your god-given blessing that you were made to receive pleasure as part of a husband's god-given blessing that he's made strong and to pursue and to initiate. And so sometimes i think women struggle with receiving and just unwinding and knowing this is actually a gift to my husband that i get to receive and so i think if you're wondering about how to become orgasmic read that book unlike your orgasm because that really it will give you i think in the privacy of your own home like the courage to get out of mirror. Get to know that it's good get to know your anatomy and begin to be able to even verbalize that to your husband and there's exercises in there on how to activate those feelings and how to find positions that feel good how to communicate what you might want to do with your husband and it's just a process but i think i just want to mostly give hope i can't break down like the 10 steps of something right here but there's so much hope because it's what your body was made for and a lot of it has to do with our mindset. And are we integrating our bodies with a sense of you're good and i want to receive and i'm open and then it's it's training yourself and training your husband to know because it doesn't always happen automatically and some women think oh is it just vaginal. Cuz i think we think that thrusting and ejaculation is sex and it's supposed to be a boom like explosion that's what the movie show but no women need external stimulation they need arousal they need time. And so it is a little bit more of a process but it's really good and it's a blessing to your husband to be able to explore that with him well and you i mean you've talked so openly about this on your podcast it was interesting actually last year i don't even remember the name of the movie but it's like some super popular christmas movie and i didn't actually really even i didn't really like it but at one point you know they don't show anything but it's like the you know the girl and the guy comes over and they're like going to go upstairs and whatever and she asked her you know oh oh. Do you like you know foreplay and she's like oh i hate foreplay or whatever like i just want to jump right in and i'm like okay this is part of the problem of just like i don't know like women you just basically jump in and you're like you know having all these orgasms and it's like you feel as someone who. Doesn't hasn't experienced that you see even just like a small or hear a small line like that in a movie and you're like wow i must be like so broken something must be so wrong with me and it just contributes to the problem because now i'm mentally there's so much anxiety and so many issues and so i would really encourage our listeners to go to francie's podcast heaven in your home obviously will link it all but you have several episodes that specifically talked about like your orgasmic potential and just how the process. Reaching an orgasm and how that looks i think this is probably one of the. Most asked questions. Women married women want to know about like having an orgasm the most because they feel like that's the thing that's talked about the least the kind of building on that why would you say it is. So hard for a woman to have an orgasm like i don't know if that's really true but that's how we feel and we feel like. So as as we're talking i'm thinking about my real life and my real life is full of kids and full of demands and i am straight up exhausted right i just told you i had a free morning at home before we start recording i'm like i have free morning at home i had all these aspirations i was going to work out and you know what i did i probably got in my bed after i took my kids to their classes and i slept for an hour and a half and i set my alarm for 30 minutes and i still. That is i think true of a lot of women if you have free time what do you want to do like really our bodies need to sleep we're really tired. So being exhausted. Being distracted which oh by the way i'm always you know needing to be on instagram or amazon or doing something not to mention social media like our brains are always distracted so we're exhausted where it distracted and we're so busy. All those things are really bad ingredients when you want to become orgasm. Our bodies need to be rested we need time in a bathtub. To take a deep breath and it might feel like oh that's never in my lifetime but it might help to communicate a few things like that hey babe it would really help me and that couple that i mentioned glenn and phyllis they actually had a similar story as to me and wyatt i told wyatt at one point like i need a bath i need a alone time because i can't breathe and i can't switch from like being a giver all day to all the people to becoming like an orgasmic excited wife five minutes later. Lifestyle changes of thinking let me just care for my body let me go slower let me rest let me maybe put down my phone and pick up an actual novel and just relax into my body so that my brain can come down to a place of being able to receive so i think that's a big part of it. Quickies are great ideas for busy weeks but that's not the way to have great orgasms. Lower longer sessions. When you have time to explore each other's bodies to do foreplay to really just unwind and be present in the moment those are all. They don't really have anything to do with your clitoris we haven't even gotten to that. But i think going slower and giving yourself time and you might also think oh that's crazy. Well the way that my husband and i who have a very full life have done it is the last few years we've opted for hotel dates. But we go to the hotel from like 4:00 to 8:00 or something like that in the afternoons and we don't so we're going home to put the kids in bed. But we need time together and we often will take a nap but then we'll just have time to shower slowly to be present in the moment to take turns on each other and really enjoy intimacy and i think that's where our most powerful experience have happened is because we're going slowly. And then it's over. And as we have gotten to know each other it's even more fun because we know how to extend the pleasure for each other. That's so beautiful i know a big shift in our marriage. Make me come alive and i'm like coming like these dead dry bones and he's like all right how am i going to raise the dead tonight it's just so horrible and you know we had this massive shift of me you know and have just so many mindset shifts but me realizing like oh i don't come as these dead dry bones like just the things that you're describing like i can. Appreciating my body even thinking about what's going to happen you know like bringing out that. Yeah i know it's a very real thing i talked to my husband years ago i'm like it's like i literally have to switch gears i'm so tired i've got baby spit up on my shoulder you know i haven't washed my hair in a week i just don't feel cute i don't feel pretty and so it just all bleeds into your sex life but i realize like i need to switch gears from like the giving wife. From the giving mom to the orgasmic wife like i have to figure out what is what is it that helps me realize i can be both. But not necessarily the same time and with me is the power to be both but i need some things and so i do take a couple baths a week and why it will put the little ones down and then for a long time we practice date night every night we call it that cuz it was like we couldn't afford a babysitter and we didn't have anybody nearby so every night from 8 to 9 was our time set apart. And so we did that for many years until our kids got older and we had to switch things around with their schedule but 8 to 9 was. I wanted to be switching gears in my mind and so i might go freshen up. Wipe down or take a quick shower and even just like putting a warm washcloth all over your body and in your private parts it just kind of reminds you oh hi. I am capable of pleasure and one of my favorite secrets that's so tiny is. Buying cute underwear from like target when it's on sale and because i can easily wear underwear that has holes in it like every day of the week and just like who has time to go buy new underwear but when i'm at target and then i like buy a couple pairs i realize like whoa i feel differently all day and nobody knows that me and so it's like an internal shift and then i'm like can't wait to show i guess what i got no undies. And texting each other throughout the day and even scheduling sex i know some people. Think about your sex life intentional to prioritize it to really focus on it and even reading books like this bonnie burns orgasm book and telling your husband babe i'm reading i'm learning i can't wait to share with you what i'm learning bring him into it it really is powerful and just you know you don't be ashamed of. Devouring resources about sex because it is the most really hate to say it but it's the most important part of a healthy marriage to be intimate physically spiritually and emotionally there are a billion sermons on emotional and spiritual growth. They're very few on sexual growth. And it is that's why i think it is all the more important to feed yourself purposefully because if you're not intentionally growing and even your understanding and appreciation of your body or the sexual gift that god has given us it can so easily just fall way down the line in your priority list. And it's fine there's busy seasons but. It is a gift to be cultivated because it's powerful and it was meant to build up a marriage that then can be fruitful multiply and take dominion do the things god made us to do. On the earth it happens in those intimate spaces that's where the juices that's where the good stuff grows. I wish we had more time but i have one more question and then any resources anything that you think would be helpful for us please tell us but the last question i want to ask is specifically about. I guess you know it was austin a few different ways but basically is it possible to have an orgasm through like traditional sex like the penis and the vagina just you know like you said like thrusting in and out. Is that even possible or is that like know that's never going to happen. Tell us the scoop. Okay well again i'm not a doctor but from what i know from study and personal experience it it is possible and the reason it would be possible is that the penetration is so deep that it's hitting some pleasure spots there's the g-spot up there and there are. Because the clitoris is not just the tip on the outside it's connected to a whole host like tens. 10000 nerve endings throughout your pelvic region and so you can have an orgasm. Honestly the truth is you can have an orgasm with him kissing your neck with him stimulating your nipples. Because you can have orgasmic feelings throughout your body. That feel powerful and you start contracting in your genitals it is true. So just know like the sky is the limit with a woman's body because a woman's body is amazing if you want to know about the penetration it can feel good. You can feel good feelings one of the most common ways that you will have an orgasm while. Having penetrative sex is if your pelvic region or your kind of the pelvic bone is kind of grinding on his body because it's getting stimulation most commonly women will have orgasm through manual stimulation of a clitoris. And either him using hands inside of her or or his penis inside of her and so. Don't be afraid to use your hands or his hands all the while like simultaneously better it's like all the good stuff happening at one time. And be able to enjoy that moment so the answer is really yes it is all possible it's all good it just takes practice and getting to your body and relaxing and knowing what feels good and exploring your agenda zones while he's touching you down there like it's all sorts of fun to be had but i think the biggest thing is saying yay i can't wait to explore. I haven't had this yet but maybe we can keep trying to educate yourself on your body because it's good and it is way better than maybe we have been told god is that author of it he's the author of pleasure it's beautiful and it's wonderful and you were designed to be able to receive good things. Okay you've left all of us wanting more so obviously we have your heaven and your home podcast which is incredible and you talk about all the things and have so many incredible guests on there and it's just like i'm obsessed but are there any other books any other podcasts i know you've mentioned to so far anything else that you would recommend for us to dig into. Yeah i have some challenges on my website there's a growing your desire challenge which helps you get in tune with your five senses in everyday moments so if this is even overwhelming and you want to step back a little bit and really get into your body that is a really good place to start. I have a jump start your marriage connection course that's a to do with your husband and it's about physical mental emotional spiritual and emotional intimacy and that's a really fun one in terms of other people's resources this book is kind of old looking it is old looking cuz it is old do you know who this is cliff and joyce penner yes they. Couples. It has so many amazing exercises for some of these things we've talked about like self-cultivation using your mirror so i would say between these are two of my favorites the one about bonnie burns unlike your orgasm and then getting your sex life after a great start by the pinners so i think those resources will get you going. I mean this is the definitely the most in-depth conversation we've had on the girl to find show about. Sex and marriage and intimacy and it just makes me so excited that this conversation is happening and that people are going to find you as a result of this and get to listen to your podcast because it's been such a blessing to me i mean like literally my sister who just got married three months ago before she got married i was like you have to start in episode 1 and listen all the way through and she literally listened to every single one of your episodes thank you so much i really appreciate the time you've taken to be with us today. Thanks bethany what an amazing conversation we could have gone on for hours because there were so many more questions that you all asked. Where can i jump in right now like how can i get a resource that would help me right now if you have not read our book sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart discovering the beauty and freedom of god to find sexuality like that is the foundation without that you're going to struggle to find answers in other ways because we have to have a biblical view of our sexuality of intimacy of just even dealing with our past and knowing how to view the present so i really encourage you go to our website girl to find calm slash shop grab a copy of sex period and the longings of a girl's heart to help you you know get started on this journey of god to find sexuality in your marriage in your personal life just all around and of course give this a thumbs up if you want more episodes like this please leave a review on the podcast you know you can leave a five star on top of my spotify or on apple podcast we read them all and they just mean so much to us love you all and we'll see you in the next episode. 