Today on the girl to find show i have something extra special planned for you guys we're going to kind of take a turn and do something a little bit out of the ordinary i'm bringing my husband zach on to have a super down-to-earth just kind of life update conversation it's going to be fun we're going to dig into questions about where we are today what our family life looks like and how our marriage has changed dynamics what life is like for us as kind of instant parents were now a year and a half into our adoption so obviously a lot has changed and we're going to share some of the unexpected joys that we've experienced over the years past year and a half and then some of the unexpected challenges some of the cutest moments that we've had with our boys we're going to talk about just all of that fun stuff it's going to be super chill and zack is really sweet to come on and have this conversation with us but i do want to let you guys know that if you want to hear more specifically about our adoption journey that whole process we're not really going to dig into that today. But you can definitely just searched in our podcast for past episodes that can i have done a few different updates on kind of our infertility recurrent miscarriage journey and then another episode all about our adoption that whole process from ukraine what that looked like so definitely just do a search and you can find those episodes in the archives also if you want to take a deep dive into our story and just in general what it means for you to trust god with the longings of your heart with the unknowns in your life with. Prayers that you have that you feel like are still unanswered then i would really encourage you to grab a copy of the book that bethany and i recently released together called not part of the plan. Trusting god with the twists and turns of your story. And this book is quite frankly the most honest and raw take for each of us of the past decade of each of our lives trusting god struggling desiring things that god was not giving us and then learning how to find true contentment true fulfillment true hope in our relationship with jesus even in the midst of those desires going unmet and so for bethany it was a decade of singleness longing for marriage for me it was a decade of being married and longing for children and and god not giving us that gift and then ultimately redirecting our steps toward international adoption and i share all about that in the book not part of the plan. So if you're walking through something hard if you're struggling to trust god. Regardless of your age or season of life. I know you will find that part of the plan super encouraging so grab a copy on our website if you want to grab one for you or a friend girl to find out comma shop it's on amazon or anywhere where books are sold and honestly if you can get it free from your library that's great too because i think just got this book in your hands it's going to be such an encouragement to you. Okay without further ado let's dive into my conversation with zack hey sisterhood i'm kristen and this is. Zach i'm back i've been trying to get him to come on. You know for a while he's very willing but our schedules are crazy so it's hard so welcome to the grocery store so glad to be here this is the first. Time i've been here after the revamp. Oh yes yes yes yes yes since we've gone. Video podcast a lot of the questions on you babe because. You guys love to hear from him and a lot of times you have questions for zack you like dm me or if i do a question box you'll have questions for him but you're not really you know. So one thing that i want to kick it off is a lot of you have asked what like where i've gone on my personal instagram account you're like your awol you're nowhere to be found what's going on i kind of disappeared. But i've been just kind of like laying low and i shared this in a q&a a couple weeks ago but it's really been intentional because social media i have like a love-hate relationship with it i love it for connecting with all of you and i love being able to share authentically and just real life stuff that's going on but then at the same time it's kind of like. With all that we had going on with the adoption and becoming parents and transitioning life as a family of four i really wanted my focus my attention to just be. In the here and now like with the people in front of me not even thinking about social media not even worrying about what i'm going to post or share any of that stuff so i've been intentionally laying low but i am excited to kind of get back on here pretty soon and start sharing more life stuff with you guys on my personal instagram so that's it but for those of you who are like oh i'm new here you know i don't really know what y'all are talking about your adoption do you want to give like a super fast flyover like bird's eye view on youtube for 11 and a half years now and we were not able to have kids for the whole like our whole marriage so we went through a journey we're still on this journey of infertility we've had recurrent miscarriages in the past and just longing to be parents but that not happening and god really a couple years ago redirected our hearts i would say like a 180 through a book that we both read called adopted for life by russell moore and it really changed our perspective on adoption on parent hood on the journey to parent hood and just open our hearts to god maybe having adoption for us and a seeing that is a beautiful thing that is so like has so much gospel in it that i had never really even thought about before until i read that book and so we went on a journey of like praying and got us to the country of ukraine through connections of my sister marrying a ukrainian and then we ended up going over there and bringing back or two boys so brothers siblings and they were just 10 and 6 when we brought them home and now they're 12 and 8 so we went from no kids for 10 years to to older boys instantly. And everything changed. We're a little over a year and a half in. Post adoption right. What are the questions we get a lot is how has life changed for us since becoming instant parents i know i mean how is it changed for you. Wow. Well i think. I think. It's changed significantly in the sense that it's not just the two of us anymore there are four of us so anytime it's like oh let's go let's go out to eat let's go. You know do xyz and it's always like oh yeah we now have two boys that are part of our family either we take them or we got to figure out how to take care of them. Is we are now much less flexible on just doing what we were kind of like last minute people do this let's go do this and play the trip and whatever. That's okay we have. Okay how is it changed for you specifically as like a man going from being just a man to a dad man i mean being a father is i think it's been. A lot more fun than i had imagined yeah it's been a lot more fun. Because you have. Two little. Guys who are looking up to you. Thank you hung the moon somehow they think you hung the moon i don't even know how that happened today they love you so much and they they literally every day anything he is into he does he expressed an interest in he says they are his minis like they. I love bow hunting so these two boys have picked up bow hunting and absolutely love it so they are now every time we go hunting they're with me right they're just right there in the tree doing whatever are doing. Talking. I mean. Play hunting partners for life by myself so. I mean that's just one of the ways i think. You know as a father you baseball you've got. Football you've got soccer so those things that like playing catch in the front yard or. Turn on the football i mean those are things that i never did and now. If i said let's go play catch in the front yard every night. For 3 hours they'd be like okay let's go let's do it. So i mean that's awesome. Okay you know like i wanted you to have that but it was always a little bit like okay. And now that with the boys i'm like yes take them cuz it's like discipleship father son i'm like this is beautiful this is amazing grace and i get a little break it's just like all around so awesome when when when when let's go hunting would you say i know this is true for me would you say your perspective about adoption specifically has grown and changed now on the other side. A year and a half in as an adoptive parent oh yeah well for one is way less terrifying. Yes i mean what do you mean by that like were you super scared about it beforehand yeah just terrifying is a very strong word but like nervous right nervous about. What is on the other side of this big life change. That book krista mentioned like that changed our perspective. It gave us the gospel view of what this is. And so on the spiritual side. Like all in like let's do this this is great. Emotionally we're excited about it. And then practically speaking you're kind of still like okay this is a big life change what is this going to look like how are these boys going to fit into our family what happens in you know we wake up in the morning. What does that look like okay what happens in the evening times how does your life change all the things that. We were so used to over 10 years of marriage together. Are now going to be including these two boys. There's just the unknown factor it's unknown you don't know what it's going to look like so. I was nervous. And you don't know if you're going to connect. If you're going to you know they during our adoption training leading up to the adoption they are agency was great on giving us a ton of resources materials required training hours and hours of. Horses and videos and training and like live workshops that we had to attend to prepare ourselves for whatever might come our way post adoption anything from a to z. From easy things to really hard complicated things. But no family experiences everything you experience some of those things but you feel the weight of everything during the training so i think that was part of it and then we brought the boys home and we weren't experiencing most of what we had been trained for of course we had our our challenges and things we had to work through and transition and ups and downs but nothing as extreme as some of the things we've been trained for so that was kind of a blessing in disguise and it brought the whole like adoption which felt like this big thing out there down to earth these are real humans little boys were a family now like so much a functioning and learning and growing together was just day-to-day life just one step at a time not look like everything all at once and so did you get into the girl and you just keep going yeah so it wasn't quite as on the other side i will say a little complicated to you is that. I'm not very. Organized person just in. Life like i like things to be organized like little like i'm organized on my. Certain areas but but your truck is really just like i'm just kind of going and it's just stuff flying everywhere right. And kristen however is very organized in life and so if. Kristen wasn't in our family and we had two boys it would be a disaster because if it was just me flying the ship it would be ugly i mean she said in a boundaries making clear. Boundaries for the boys helping them understand what's what and how this works and lots of pictures of understand english. 99% of our conversations are about kids about the boys really. It makes me wonder what we talked about before. We talked about what else we wanted to do like. What should we do today where are we going on a trip what are we going to do over here that's so funny. My life has changed so much because i'm home schooling the boys so we're together all day everyday. Are date nights are still high priority for us. But the practical nature of once a week. Throughout the year is. It's tough to keep up with so. We've kind of come up with a little system we do a date night while they're at church program. That worked that works great when is during the semester and then when it's off it's like oh great now we got to get a babysitter or whatever to do a date night and we do sometimes but. The consistency. Is there but it's just a little bit more spotty and we've had to be flexible on the night like you said we take advantage they go to awana a church program and it's awesome and during that little like an hour and a half window while they're there we'll run and grab a quick dinner and enjoy date night and then every now and then we'll do an extended date night where one of our family members will bring the boys home put him to bed and we'll get to have that's happening this week that's happening yes so excited so okay that's change anything else like in our marriage that's different. I mean i think you have. A common. Goal in that you're both working to disciple these two. Little minds little hearts. That can unify or i can. Jerry apart by god's grace we're very much on the same page. Not to say we don't have. Disagreements or arguments about how we might do something or not but you said we make a good team so when there's one of us that it's like thinks one thing and another things together and we're pushing back with each other. Often that gets us a better. Better discipleship opportunity for the boys. So i think the fact that we are we have a common goal has almost. Sharing the gospel. Living life you know life on life with other believers like we had that going but we weren't we didn't have the aspect of like being a team as parents. And raising kids making disciples of like our own children and being so fully invested in that together that has really changed and that's been sweet to see you've been sweet and i think really what's happened is it's gotten our eyes off of the other person and there's a risk of like when it's just the two of you like hey you're not doing this you're not doing that you're not doing this. I mean we want to grow we're open to growing we're humble we realize we're not perfect human being but it gets our eyes off of the imperfections of the other person. And the selfishness in that. And on to something that matters. Way more yes raising up. Future. Disciples of christ. Yourself. It's good i'm helping us pour out serve others what would you say is. Some of the greatest and i hate using words like the greatest in your whole life some joys in parenting because obviously we didn't have we weren't parents before so we weren't able to experience specific joys in parenting and then some of the challenges maybe even unexpected challenges. One thing i did not expect was that. These boys. Are there so affectionate oh i know they are so affectionate they just love holding your hand sitting right next to you sitting on your lap holding your arm. Let's snuggle it says no papa. She's adorable. I totally understand it. But i was something i didn't expect and it's an absolute joy and you're naturally i would say not a super initiating snuggly personally we will snuggle and you will snuggle and snuggle me cuz you know i love it but you're not naturally and so having these two boys who are constantly wanting to snuggle with you and hug you and hold your hand. Okay so it's really about you ok google. Outdoor stuff that i now have partners with i mean that's awesome and then sports like being able to go watch the boys play sports i mean and that was something that only comes with instant family. Crazy but they just kind of jumped right in and we're still of the younger age ish. I would never ever have done had it not been for. Those are such. Fun times. That parents look forward to. One of the challenges is one of them i won't name names is. A little bit more messy. Play hands and fingers and food and things. I just is hard for me. Nobody loves to snuggle and touch you so it's like oh papa that's my suit or whatever you got greasy fingers. Pick his food and then you're right now it's so sweet and you're learning i love you papa. I love you too you know i do i do love you i love you so much. Just don't touch me with greasy fingers man. Petty petty petty petty thing right close to me i mean if that's the worst of your challenges. Another challenge i don't know that comes to mind for me it's just we now not only have the joys of parenthood but the responsibility the weight of the realness of like we are responsible in every way for these kids for their health their well-being like their spiritual growth discipleship. Sharing the gospel with them every day and like getting in the word so that i would say is something that's like a whole new level of responsibility and where we have to be so intentional and. Asking the lord of every single day for help to be gracious loving parents who are intentional and view. Throughout the day the opportunities that we had to speak into their lives and guide them and train them it is just a 24/7 thing. They're not our dog sadie period. I'm a little bit. Sanctification is beautiful thing and you know honestly we're getting opportunities for sanctification. Yeah having these boys that we would have never gotten before so. Never never stops practically because i know some people watching listening who have kids might want to know even from like a husband's perspective what do you. Find helpful in discipleship for the boys i know you have like some weekly routines with them that are really meaningful maybe sure is a little bit about that and other things that you find helpful in discipling. A couple things. Is superintendent channel most time i'm getting ready for work in the morning but doing bible time together in the morning. Is it great to battleship opportunity reading story bibles with lots of pictures. That's where we're at that they can still grasp like what's going on and. All the stories are still. That's a that's a big deal and then the boys and i both have a weekly. Breakfast so i take one of them out every week. So it's in every other week thing for each of them. And i just spent 30 45 minutes with them we might read a bible story we might talk about a specific discipleship. Situation that week that is important to address. I just give him give them an open. Door for asking questions whatever it might be on their mind whether it's. Continuously forever at least until they leave our house but as much as possible. And then. I think the. The hunting hobby whether it's that or something else. Like that's a great opportunity for discipleship. You have one-on-one time or one on two time. There's patients involved. There's a decision making. Hard wet cold things that happened. If i'm not. Specifically telling them something they're picking it up right like you're doing something with them. I think i just said that quality time whether it's that or something else is just super important and i didn't realize. It was going to be as important as. I believe it is now and how much they want it. And this was early on right after we adopted the boys and i was just asking her for parenting advice. And she said that. Just you need to be just as focused on building a relationship with your kids as you are on discipling and training them and she was saying you know as christian parents we want to be so intentional in our discipleship in our training raising them up to know the lord that sometimes we can diminish how important the relationship and discipleship can be very relational as you just said but sometimes it can just be instructive and we lose sight of of investing time. Quality time in the actual relationship and she was saying those two things need to be equal like equal amounts on both sides and they can be combined but it was just opening for me to realize oh you know as i think about my day with the boys how how much quality time did we spend together or were we just functioning in our to do's and instruction and okay on to the next thing and the checklist of the day and and i'm losing sight of actually investing. Even having a little fun together here and there throughout the day. And so good but like you said that relationship investing in it i think that is where so much of the discipleship opportunities come out of and it's just more natural and you're actually building a bond together you're way more fun than i am. You're a lot of fun i would not have done that. Parents. When i get home from work the fact that. They've kind of dropped off of this but for a while there they would shoot me. I mean again i think the affection is just so so. Fun. I don't know nothing else is coming tomorrow i love their enthusiasm for everything like if we they are so expressive and they it's like like if we say boys tonight and we have like a surprise like we're going to go out to dinner or we're going to go do something together or we're going to watch this movie or play this game or whatever or if in the day i'm like hey let's go to the store and we're going to get a craft and come home and do it no matter what it is if it's like anything they are so excited they will even like the look like and then smiles and like they'll they'll shout with joy they'll jump up and down it's just like they're so expressive and i'm really expressive and i never imagined like i was like yeah and so i don't know if like. Pretty enthusiastic people but they are just so excited about everything and so it makes everything we do they just bring so much joy and energy and happiness to everything we do because that's something that. Yeah i did not expect. So this is kind of a big question. You don't have to get into the details but people will often ask. If we are planning to adopt more kids are we hoping to have biological kids are we thinking our family of four is finished. Where are we at in this process sorry it's a secret. We're always open to. The door and adoption isn't closed. We're never not trying. Till i hit menopause we will be trying. We're open and we'll see where the future leads. There you go that's where we are where we are thank you so much for being here today the sharing. This conversation if you like the girl to find show leave us a thumbs up leave us a five-star rating come hang out over with us on instagram if you're not already there at girl define that's where we'll chat and just continue conversation if you have more questions for zack drop them in the comments drop us a dm and i'll be sure to ask you and you can get back to the sisterhood on those questions all right we love you guys. Thanks for listening to this episode of the girl to find show i hope it was fun i hope it was enjoyable just a little bit of a peek inside of our lives. If you appreciate this episode if you love what we're doing here at girl define in general would you please take 30 seconds to leave us a five-star review wherever you're listening spotify apple you guys it really makes a huge difference in exposing our podcast to other people in in pushing it out so other women can find it and be encouraged and come along this journey with all of us as the sisterhood so if you've never done that would you do that really quick for us that can be a little gift a little way of saying thanks for the show and it also encourages us when we see your reviews your comments your suggestions we love interacting with you and hearing from you so if you could take a quick sec to do that. That would be awesome and again if you want to take a deeper dive into all things trusting god if you want a deeper dive into our adoption story and what it looks like to really find fulfillment peace contentment in the midst of disappointments unfulfilled longings then grab a copy of not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of your story i my sister and i wrote that book to be an encouragement specifically for all of us as we walk through those seasons and we all have them life can be so hard and there can be such discouraging things that can happen and sometimes it can even feel like a crisis of faith like wow god where are you in the midst of this and i remember feeling that myself. After my third miscarriage and i share that whole process of wrestling going to the word finding comfort and stability in the foundation of who god says he is in his character and i share all about that and not part of the plan. I'm so if you would find that encouraging grab a copy you can find it at girl21 / shop or wherever books are sold thanks guys again for tuning in if you like this episode or past episodes please share with a friend pass the word on i can't wait to chat with you next time. 