Hey sister today on the girl to find show i have an extra special treat for you guys for all of my organizers out there or those of you who are like i want to be organized my house is a wreck i need help my laundry is piled my dishes are always overflowing i don't have good rhythms for keeping anything clean then you're in luck today because i am talking to someone who is i think she's an expert because compared to me she's definitely an expert someone who has an amazing instagram page helping us as women learn how to do this well deb von bergen is with us today and she's going to be sharing all of her best tips and tricks for how we as women can practically manage our homes well and i'm the first to raise my hand to say i need help with that and if you feel that too then stick around because this is going to be super practical and really helpful something you can put into practice today deb thank you for having this conversation with that thank you for having me i'm super excited okay you your instagram page is so inspiring all of your reels just like little tips like okay the best way to clean your microwave or like the easiest way to clean your shower just and my mind is always blown is i'm watching her real so i'm thinking that is so simple and so easy and i've been doing it the hard way for the last 15 years dad where have you been i need you so thank you for being here and imparting some of your wisdom but i have to ask right off the bat i have you always been this organized this decluttered this simplified or is this something that came along later in life. Yeah so i would say i'm in between i started as i've always been more of a clean person but i wouldn't say i've always been organized that's always been something i've struggled more with and so that is definitely newer on the scene. For sure. Okay so what does that mean being you were clean but you weren't organized like you had piles of stuff and you would just like clean the piles or in my mind i'm thinking they're the same but they're not so what's the difference right okay so i would do the dishes and i would vacuum the floors those kind of things but my closet was super unorganized and if you went into it it looked like it was gonna like explode on top of you or. The laundry the laundry i didn't have a good system for laundry and so we always have these overwhelming piles of laundry just those kind of things that i feel like are more of an organizational thing i didn't mean meal plan i didn't do those kinds of things so i was always in the state of over but if you walked into our home most of the time it was like semi-clean. A little bit more into the category of a clean person because i actually do like cleaning i vacuum constantly you know counters but then i don't feel like the organization like my systems for like okay how do i consistently get the dishes done how do i consistently keep the laundry i know when my husband is coming to me and he's like hey honey i'm out of underwear again let me just amazon you some more pairs you know he's so kind he'll just like i'll see him take the basket of laundry and just kind of take it over and start doing it and i'm like oh no i'm such a failure i just need better systems the struggle is real and i think so many of our listeners can relate to that you know leaving your laundry like the other day i forgot about the load that i had started and it sat in my washer for a day to the point that he got stinky so i washed it again and then i did it again so i washed it three times really really but i know i'm not alone in that the struggle is real and i think for us as christian women this is a this is a topic. A conversation that i think we should care about because we see in scripture that god cares about the home that god cares about the family and i think he's given the home and the woman kind of a special connection we see versus like proverbs 31:27 which says she looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness so this this special calling for the woman. Take care about the home to want to cultivate the home to want to nurture the relationships in the home she's not lazy she's not like whatever i don't care but she cares and i think for most of us as christian women. I think we probably deep in our heart care you know maybe some of us need to care a little more but i think we do but we just don't have the tools and i felt that way when i got married like i don't feel like i had a ton of great tools my mom was really organized so i came in with some good tools from her but just my own routines my own rhythms i don't feel like i had a great system and as i talked to so many young married women they're like yeah i literally have no idea how to manage my home like i thought it was going to be so easy but it's so much harder and then you throw kids into the mix and it's like hard enough just you and your husband then you have kids and it's like how in the world do i do this so i want this conversation to be so practical with all your tips and tricks but from that foundational lens of we are christian women we are called to glorify god in all of our work and i think that includes the way we care for our home take care of our family create a peaceful environment just looking well to the ways of our household like proverbs says so you are going to be our expert giving us tips and tricks on how we can do that from that heart motivation ultimately to glorify god but how we can just get better at doing that well something that i love that i saw you said and can't remember where you said this but you said many women feel like their home is controlling them. Inside of them feeling control of their home i know i feel that many times what does that mean. Yeah to me that means and what i meant by that is that i would wake up in the morning and i would just have this huge to-do list and i felt overwhelmed before ever crawled out of bed and i just had kind of this i don't know this realization one day where it's like. I don't want to live my life this way any longer why in the world am i letting my day control me and instead of me deciding. Hey i have these couple things that i need to do today and then i'm going to go and do the things i really want to do the things that are more like kingdom work like spending time with my children and my husband and i. Have been one of those people that would have said like i'm just not that way like my personality i'm just not super organized and i would say things like that until i caught myself being like. Jesus gave us the ability to change the way we are. And so it for me this journey has been a convicting journey of i don't have to be this way. I get to choose i get to make choices i get to learn new things. And so my instagram is like taking you along as i learned to. That's so good and so raw and honest oh my goodness so i was talking to abby halberstadt so she's the author of m is for mama has a really encouraging instagram for for moms and wives and she was saying that so many of us as women all that you just said it's like yes we want that but like i said earlier we come into marriage we come into our home so ill equipped and she was saying so often you know like in the workplace we view it from a professional lens like oh this is my profession so therefore i need to work hard i need to learn new skills i need to take these courses i need to learn learn learn but then when it comes to the home she was saying we often switch our mindset to one of like oh that's just not my personality oh that's just not me and and almost like we can't learn new skills almost like a cop-out and she was just encouraging all the women in our conversation to think of the home just like you would have professional just like you would your career yeah there isn't the boss giving you you know the pay raise or the bonus on you know for the great job you did however our work is to glorify god to love and care for our families and if we thought about it more like a profession i think we would care more about advancing our skills and growing our tools and thinking more like stretching ourselves pushing ourselves not saying well that's just not me but how can i grow and do better at that and i love that you just share that. Totally okay so for you. That might that shift when did that happen. Was that after like just a few years ago or was that like right when you got married so i've always been more minimalist and thankfully i married a husband who's also more minimalist so i do have that going for me i know some of you probably are in a different situation where your husband's are more like they love to collect things or their hoarder type of people. My husband is not and so that has helped me a lot he also is more organized than me and this actually created some conflict in our marriage at times where he was more organized like don't you think this is important and i was just more like well no not really and i'm trying to like. Do whatever he's asking but. That is part of for me what spurred me on is thinking what can i change about myself. That will benefit our our home and our marriage and our children. So switching gears though like if someone they they're feeling that conviction even right now we're just thinking you know yeah i have been kind of copying out and just saying like it's just not me it's not my personality but they want to make that switch you know and i've been there too i've said that for sure about the things that i just i'm like oh like laundry really is it's. If you're not an organized person you never have been maybe you and your spouse aren't or maybe your husband is and he's like really hoping you'll become more organized. What where do we start we step back and we look at our house or you know our apartment wherever we're living. What is step one okay so this is going to sound crazy. But i want you to listen to this as i say it because this change everything for me. I wanted to change for a long time for many years i wanted to change i wanted to make differences and i would search all the pinterest things and like try to figure out what to do and i would try them and it never seemed to change things. This sounds crazy because this doesn't have to do with the decluttering or simplification of your life. But really it came down to recently liked in the last year i really thought through. What are my christian values like what are important to me and to our family and so my husband and i would talk about it and i really sat down and thought. What is the life that we would love to live and experience and does my actions every day do they match up with those values. One of my personal values and our family values is freedom and when i really thought about like i am not creating a space in our home that promotes freedom to do things when we want to to like go leave and have fun or whatever. It's not promoting that because i am tied down by my schedule and buy all the things i'm putting in so it was really more of like this big journey for me of like simplifying here simplifying here or actually thinking through it. You figure out what is your personal family values what do you want your life to look like and as believers. But he has given us this free will to decide what it can look like and so i really recommend that first as the first step. And then the second thing i would say is. Figure out what's overwhelming you the most so if. It was laundry for me and this was. Truly my first thing to really tackle was the laundry situation i had like a room in my house filled with laundry on the couch that like never disappeared and it was like. Literally my arch enemy but i didn't know what to do to take care of it and then i bet with the laundry from trying everything on pinterest to having moldy towels to the loads that have to repeat it over and over and over again and it was just getting to the point where i was like okay this is ridiculous and there has to be a way to fix this so start with whatever's overwhelming you the most it might not be laundry for you it might be dishes it might be that you have a closet or whatever that's always overflowing and it drives you crazy but you never seem to have the motivation to take care of it. Do that first. Oh my goodness that's so good will laundry is what's coming to mine for me too. So start with the thing that's like your biggest burden it sounds like the biggest hurdle that you feel like this is constantly like a small thorn in my flesh and i need to get a grip on this start there and then just kind of slowly entryway along so let's just say. Theoretically say some of us struggle with laundry as well and what would you say for me with my laundry situation which isn't super organized and have a great plan. What do you do for laundry cuz you have how many kids. We have two kids what is a good way to do laundry to get in a good routine and system with laundry. Okay so i know this is going to differ from family to family this is what works for me and i have had several friends try it and they are saying it's working for them too. There's two things that i do one is i do one load of laundry a day if i need to do a second i'll do it but i do it all the way through so when i used to do laundry day a week. We all know that you don't want to pull it out of the dryer and then it sits cuz you don't want to hold it cuz you've been switching. So i do one load of laundry i started in the morning as soon as i get up i go ahead and i just throw it in and i wash it put it in the dryer and as soon as it comes out of the dryer i sort it and put it away so that's my first tip is one load one load and then another day you'll probably have to do like one load in towels or one load in sheets that's cool do this. But my second tip and this is where a lot of people on instagram i got a lot of flack for this but i'm going to share it because it's working so well for us at least this is a debate of a debate we actually for our kids do not have a dressers we have those cube storage you can get them at target and then we buy the little cube canvas squares. And our kids do not fold their laundry we sort them so as soon as it comes out of the laundry out of the dryer they just sort it into their each person they take their piles my kids are 9 and 8 we've been doing this since they were probably six and five. They sort their laundry into the categories and we're done we don't fold. Thanks and the biggest question everybody has is yes so your kids walk around with wrinkles all over or yes that start with my question like okay so wait are they are they just wrinkled from head to toe how does that work. So here's the thing. If you have kids you know this to be true you spend a lot of time folding laundry and if you allow your kids to get dressed themselves their drawers probably don't stay me unless i have like a bunch of divisions in them and you spend way too much time folding their laundry so the answer is no they don't look wrinkly because kids laundry is not being folded after the second day anyway it's. For some reason they have something that like a dresser or something on sunday i just iron that or steam it and we're good to go so yeah it saves so much time i've never heard of that i've never heard of that method of just. Sorting the laundry and then the kids just put their stuff in their cubicles without just like dump it in and it works great. What are you watching every day is it just like the current dirty stuff or do you have a system like one day's whites one day's colors one day is this one day is that or how does it work. But you can get these sheets that will absorb any dyes you can get them at walmart you can get them on amazon they work fabulously so we just do by person so i washed like my husband and my clothes together and then i washed each child together and then we do the towels and it works great and i do sheets every single week and so one day i'll do all of our sheets. Wow you wash the sheets every week. And you're going to feel so accomplished and who doesn't love getting into a bed with clean sheets oh it's a bad thing it's the best so do you have a chart like monday is my laundry tuesday's the kids or like how do you know what day you're washing who stuff. I don't actually have a chart i normally just do it by who's pile like who's hamper is the fullest. But you absolutely could it would be so easy to have a charge i just don't i just it's such a routine for me now that rooms and and our kids don't have enough laundry i wash their clothes once or twice a week and i do them together and so it's like a load probably twice a week i do a load that's just their clothes so it works great oh okay i'm currently on the once a week routine at least for my kids because i have these chore charts for them and so every wednesday is laundry day for them. But i don't really have a good system for myself hence the reason my husband comes to me regularly like honey i'm out of underwear again. A variety of paper plates and regular dishes but we do all like normal silverware and like cups and everything and i just feel like i always do the dishes at night at least i try to do before bed but if this thing is just constantly full and i don't know if the goal should be to have the empty sink. All the time i mean i don't know what do you think what's your tip for dishes. I love this question and i really do think it's a little bit on what you decided it is important to you if you feel like you have most piece when the counter is clean then i think that you should probably just whip them up every single meal i do think that's the easiest and so i actually don't we don't utilize our dishwasher other than as a drying rack and here's why. Because the dishwasher for us meant that at the end of the night you were standing there doing like rinsing and filling up a dishwasher so what i tend to do is breakfast and lunch together before my husband gets home and then as soon as dinner's done we whip up the dinner dishes and for the most part our counters are always clean that way so that's just what we have found to work the best. I really do think that goes down to what's important to you if dishes are your thing that stresses you out i'd encourage you to whip them up every meal at genuinely takes 5 to 10 minutes if you're doing it. It sounds like just making it more of a routine honestly that you're just always chipping away up versus waiting till it's over and so big and then like okay now i'm going to tackle it and then it's just feels like oh like you really don't enjoy it at all totally you may ever enjoy the dishes but okay interesting so you put them in the dishwasher and then you let them dry and then like do you leave it open and errors out or yeah i just leave it open a little bit and let it air out and then yeah we put them away for the next bill so it's it wouldn't work for everyone and i fully realize that but for us it just it yeah the most like piece so yeah. Yeah that is so cool okay you had mentioned meal planning and that that is something that i just recently actually started getting my boys so we have two boys 12 and 8 and they love cooking and they always want to be in the kitchen with me when i'm cooking i don't enjoy cooking it's not like i just don't like anything in my home but i really do love my homework i'm learning to enjoy these things more. But cooking is something that i've never loved but my boys actually really loved it so i'm involving them more but i still don't feel like i have a great routine as far as like planning the meals consistently having the stuff in the fridge i need to make the meals so what do you guys do what has been helpful for y'all oh man this is something i'm so passionate about because. January 1st i decided as a resolution which i'm not normally a resolution girl but i was like this is something i have to change so okay so this is a newer things for you that you started doing so january to now and i. Eat more of like we as a family eat more like metabolic supportive diets a lot of nutritious like deeply nurse deeply nourishing food. Yes i tend to what i started in january is before i do my grocery shopping i actually will not go grocery shopping like i hold myself back until i have the menu planned for that week but i don't plan on breakfast or lunch is because our kids go to school it would be different if your home schooling but i do the same things for breakfast like every week we have the same couple things we have like good cereal we have yogurt so we have smoothie stuff like we have the same thing eggs hard-boiled eggs in the fridge we have the same things every week for breakfast and lunches and then dinner is the main thing that i plan for and so that has helped me a lot of awesome been able to call way back on the amount of money we're spending on groceries because i had a plan so. Do you sit down one day a week and plan all of your dinners for the following week what is the planning process look like i sat down with my computer and i get on pinterest and i'll just type in things like nourishing meals for the family and then i just find i try to always vary it my husband loves varied foods and so i try to just bury it and it's been working so well so most weeks we don't have the same meal. And then maybe there will be one easy meal like will make homemade pizza or something like spaghetti something that's really normal just in case like i'm having a stressful day or whatever we're in a hurry so i know what to make but yeah. Oh okay that's really helpful you do not go to the store until your list is finalized and i have it that's so cool and i just walk through our store and i just deleted off my phone notes as i have it. And that has helped me a lot and like i said it is saved us hundreds of dollars. Wow and then when you go to cook that meal it's interesting it's different my husband has expressed the same thing he's like i love variety cuz i was getting in these rats where i was like cooking the same thing every three days cuz i would just buy like the basic ingredients i would have no recipes no plan i just like the stuff and then i would kind of end up making the same thing again and again and so he was so sweet just like. Oh i think you're going to look so gracious and thankful for my efforts but kind of like. Yeah yeah maybe mixing it up a little would be good so having a plan and then having the stuff in your fridge so you can actually make those things yes it's so it's so easy because i'm like oh yeah we're having this tonight and i just get started and it's it's been wonderful for sure. Okay briefly tell us what metabolic is because we eat metabolically too but people who listening might be like what in the world they both just said like metabolic what does that mean like give us a nutshell of what like the kind of meals like that you focus on for the nourishing nutrients and all that so i am not a science person so it describing metabolic to people is a little it's a little hard for me. But the way that we go about it is i try to have a really healthy protein a good carb like a good healthy carb and then a healthy fat at pretty much every meal that we eat. And so that can look like we're having like. Maybe a hash like a ground beef with some root vegetables that are really good healthy carbs and then we have fruit and something else i love to cook this way and i found that it's just really easy you think. Good hearty carbs and. Good proteins i don't know what else we do a lot of raw milk we do a lot of rocky first yeah. Which is probably weird to some people but that's been really easy for us my ear. Oh no you're fine no worries yes okay so just nourishing that yes those macronutrients your carbs your fat your protein that's been revolutionary for us like if anyone listening wants to know more just google like metabolic. I know you can get a variety of stuff but just think of really balancing your meals having just like for your blood sugar for your gut for everything to process our bodies do so much better when we have those balanced portions of those macronutrients i've seen a huge improvements in my health as well and my boys just cutting out all the junk and like the sugar you know but but doing healthy version of like sweet sounds like it's been. Yeah it's been really good for us okay so we've got to fly through a few you can just give us like your your bullet answer and then guys go check out her instagram what's your handle again on instagram so it's deb and then v o n b e e. What is the timer trick oh my goodness i love this truck so much and this is revolutionized this is probably the first thing that i did with way before i simplified things and that is that i tended to procrastinate so like oh my goodness i need to clean up the kitchen but i don't want to so i'm going to scroll for five more minutes. And i utilized this rule of using a timer and racing myself. And even if you're not a competitive person by nature this works so well so i look at my kitchen and i evaluate like how long do i think this is going to take me and i try to deduct like five minutes so i think it's going to take me 20 so i set my timer for 15 and then i said it in the second i click start i go to the room that needs to be done. This has. Truly daily because literally every day i'll be like okay i need to clean up the house i'll i'll get our kids involved and like turn the timer on like okay kids let's clean up everything in 10 minutes. And it it works so well but for me it has been. It has i don't even know how to put it into words it's almost like an emotional thing because where i was procrastinating now i feel so motivated and i feel like i've achieved something when i see the timer go off and my kitchen is like sparkling clean. So wow so for competitive people or just not if you're not maybe this will help you just just to get a test done it sounds like to keep you focused like instantly getting lost in this thing and nothing before you know it's like an hour later and you barely done anything i know i can for sure relate to that yeah and i would say more even more than competitive like obviously it's it's fun but i would say more than competitive it really is if you find yourself procrastinating which we know procrastination is is our emotions tied to what we're doing so if you find yourself as a procrastinating which most of us do on housework. This it alone could change so much for you because you can just set the timer and get it done and you feel so it's like a endorphin like boost i am going to try that we have a little timers i have them for the kids for a different things that they need to do or you know ok google read this book for 20 minutes whatever. I'm going to try it on myself and see how that goes i'm going to take your time i'm going to do it okay with the time we have left a few more questions i want to hear about your favorite tips for decluttering i know most of us have way too much stuff and then we end up with piles everywhere because we don't know what to do with it we don't know where to put it what do you recommend for decluttering for simplifying things yes so this is a journey. And i really think that you need to give yourself grace if whoever is listening to this if you find yourself a little lot of stuff. Give yourself grace and i encourage you you i have a bunch of them on my instagram or you can look on pinterest there's so many decluttering challenges where you can like do something a day. I just have so much stuff in my house start with your bookshelf and be like what is 10 bucks what can i get rid of and take it to goodwill. But my tip is always to be less don't overwhelm yourself or again we fall into procrastination because our brains trying to keep us from something that feels unsafe or something that feels not fun so don't worry about yourself but for me it started with again figuring out what matters to me. Do i really love when i walk into my house do i feel like i'm calm and at peace and so many of us have so much stuff that we don't feel like that at all so that's my first tip is figure out what's important to you and then start with something small and move on to bigger bigger bigger and bigger things. The other tip that i would say one of the biggest things for me was i found that when i would go to the store i would see something i'd be like oh my goodness that's so cute and i would get. And i started like having duplication of things in my home or things that i just didn't need so now i try to not go to the store unless i have a list of this is exactly what i need. And that has cut down so much on the extras. And then aids you and in your decluttering process because it's pointless to start on decluttering if you're bringing new things into your home as you're getting rid of things so yeah you can ask for if you have more but those of you probably my top two yeah. No those are so good what about for clothes like. What are the rules we have in our house and my husband and i established a while ago is that once we run out of coat hangers like hangers for our clothes that means we have too many like too many clothes and so we're not buying more hangers we're actually going to get rid of clothes and for us it's like our stopping our hard stop of okay it's time to get you know garbage bag and start donating things to go well so i don't know if that's a good method or not i still feel like my closet are are always like jam-packed and i don't know what's a good method for just getting rid of old clothes that we don't wear maybe we bought it new and it still has the tags but we've never worn it but it's just taking up space you know i my rule is if i haven't worn it for like if it's not in season if i didn't wear it at the season before so if it's summer and it's winter and i'm like i don't wear that all last summer i get rid of it. I'm going to tell you another trick that is newer to me but i feel is so beneficial and that is to look into what like we actually know this i think inherently but we just don't always act on it and that is what colors do we feel the best in. Because you feel confident as a woman wearing that color or that shirt or that dress and you feel good in it and you always pick those so often this clothes that we don't wear are the ones that we. Kind of deep down know like doesn't make us feel really good. Inside. Interesting one of the things that i do when i go into my closet is if i look at a shirt and i'm like. I never choose to wear that shirt i get rid of it i just get rid of it because i know like. Do you just get rid of it right now or do you make a pile of like stuff that i'm going to take to go to will or like when you say get rid of it what does that mean. I would say that if it's i almost always use the poshmark app and i sell my clothes on poshmark so yes okay yes i know you can do a facebook so you're actually making money on facebook or instagram or whatever you can there's so many ways to do that but i try to sell them if possible. But that is my role and that has helped me like so much because i used to buy a lot of cute clothes that i would see him really cool that's okay and i would buy and then i wouldn't wear it and this. And you'll learn what color is actually look good on you and then you never should buy something. If it's not in your color season because you are not going to gravitate towards that isn't that crazy that's so interesting well even if you were saying that i was thinking about i did the color the seasonal color thing whatever it's called years ago and i think i was i can't remember but it's whatever like the the colors that are more the like the the browns the neutrals the. Less of like the bright yellow and bright pink i don't even know how tall is i don't know more like the warm. Creams like light browns i don't know. But those are the colors that i often gravitate towards in my closet and then the ones like the other colors like you're talking about i'm even thinking about some shirts like oh that's so cute but how come i like never really want to wear it like i don't really ever wear that shirt that's what i think you're right i think it has to do with the color yeah it's like subconscious saying ok. Cleaning easy okay so i actually almost exclusively utilize these cleaner which most people know about thieves and i don't wrap the company but i will i'm sure everyone knows a young living rep. I love thieves cleaner because it's so cheap but if you want to go a different route i would say you can do vinegar and you can use vinegar from basically everything white vinegar. We personally are pretty much totally non-toxic the only thing that i still use is toilet bowl cleaner and i just use whatever i get at walmart the works is normally my favorite one but other than that i use vinegar or i use face cleaner for everything. Wow and do you clean everyday do you clean like how does your cleaning work your cleaning routine to keep things like that the toilet the floors the mirrors to keep all those like the counters and stuff so here's another decluttering it kind of goes into the decluttering / simplification but something that i realized is that so often i was putting off cleaning because i would have to go to the cleaning cupboard and get out all my cleaning supplies and then clean yeah what we did is we went to walmart and we bought like one dollar spray cans that are so like they're plastic they're cheap whatever but if they break who cares. And then we did these cleaner and then you could also do water with essential oils or you could do vinegar in them vinegar just smells and so that's why i don't choose to always use it but usually works great. Paper towels and a bottle of thieves cleaner under both bathroom sink. And then in our kitchen and basic almost every single day we spray off our mirrors we spray off our toilet are sinks because it's right there and. I timed myself one time and it takes about 3 minutes. To spray the whole bathroom down but. Also keeping a bottle in your shower while you're taking a shower you use your like you use your washcloth or whatever you have one in there and you just wipe everything down while you're in the shower. Completely naked you don't care about getting wet and it works so good. And you're using non-toxic cleaning supplies so you're not concerned like oh i'm spraying bleach on my feet or whatever it's all safe if it gets on your skin or whatever. Oh my goodness that's so amazing okay how do you stay motivated day after day. That's my last question because i need to know how you do this day after day and stay after it i would say that i was not motivated the way i was living before and that was kind of my i would read about the proverbs 31 woman and it's like she's so clearly such a hard worker and by nature i am a very determined type person. But i found that i was procrastinating on our home continuously and i felt like i had to get to the root of why am i so resistant. To doing things that i should be doing as a wife and a mother or it just seems so natural but yet i'm resisting it yeah. And so motivation really came from simplifying the last stuff i had in our home the more i realized i enjoyed cleaning our home because i'm not cleaning around a million different things i took a lot of like we don't have a ton of decor in our home we have a little bit but we don't have a ton and it just reduced so much of what i was doing down to the actual things that mattered to me. And so i feel motivated because i learned that peace and calmness is important to me but that goes again to the values like what's important to you. And i just wake up excited because i know it's not going to take me a really long time because i've kept as you get into a rhythm you realize you've kept up on it and then it's not overwhelming anymore wow. Skill set and view it as something that is worth. Impacts your family and impacts your children so yeah it just seems like a no-brainer like of course why aren't we growing and increasing our skills in this but for so many of us it's just on the back burner so hopefully this conversation for me included is bringing it to the foreground. For all of us to just kind of re-evaluate and take a step back and say lord you know have i been faithful in this area how can i grow in this area how can i bless my family care for them and create a space that we all enjoy being in that enables our relationships to thrive that's a place of peace there's so much chaos in the world to have a space that you can come home to and have that sense of peace and just like that deep breath like oh that just sounds so amazing but i think for us as women. We've got to kind of take the bull by the horns and say like okay enough is enough i'm going to start taking steps to make this happen i want to look well to the ways of my household like the proverbs 31 woman yes she had servants but we've got pinterest you know we've got microwaves we've got ovens we've got crock-pot things she didn't have we do have a lot of quotes servants and that we have a lot of tools at our disposal and it's just learning how to use them well getting in route to the systems it sounds like so yeah thank you so much for all of your tips for all of your wisdom again tell us your instagram because i want everyone to go follow dad if you're like this was so good she gives you the visual like she shows you the step by step on the things we talked about with video like you can see what she's doing and it's just really really helpful so go follow her on instagram tell us your handle again. If the deb van be so v o and debbie and i will link up below in the show notes and also your website. The blond. The blonde bee. That came out totally wrong the blondes.com as well below follow her on instagram and also guys i just want to say if you if you're like me and i i want to grow just in general in my understanding of god's design for the woman his heart for womanhood you know the complementary and roles between the man and the woman then i encourage you guys to grab a copy of girl to find our first book here at girl define because it's the foundation if you're like yes i can get you know i can watch on to these skills if you just have the skills but you don't have the heart or you don't understand you know god's greater heart for womanhood the beauty of our unique design to be able to bear life just are you unique role within the family like it's amazing and so beautiful and so grab a copy of girl to find over at girl to find.com or website any bookstore get it free from the library i don't care i think you'll find that really encouraging as you understand more about god's design that will feel your passion for the way that you care for your home and family so dad thank you again for all these practical tips it was so great having you on today thank you for having me. 