Today on the girl to find show we are talking all things men and masculinity and were specifically talking about the toxic. War on masculinity you may have heard the term toxic masculinity we're not talking about that specifically we are talking about the toxic. War on masculinity there is a war going on. Really in american culture to get rid of men you know testosterone bad masculinity bad really the feminine is kind of upheld and if only men were more like women than the world would be a better place there is so much against our sons our husband. What does a truly godly man look like what does a good man look like what are red flags i should look out for in a man that's not so good like how should i even talked about this how should i even word this how should i think about this i mean we've received so many emails from single women saying where are all the good men are there any good men out there and we're going to get into that today we're going to talk about a lot of the abuse that's been done in christian cultures and and why that's that way we're going to talk about really good godly men and who those are and how to look for those we're going to get into all the nitty-gritty all the things you want to know about men and masculinity and we're just going to offer you some hope because there is some really good news that professor nancy brings actually to the beginning of this conversation that i think is going to leave you like wow. God is doing something great. I have some hope for a minute i got some hope for the masculinity thing so let's jump into the conversation nancy thank you so much for joining the girl to find show i'm so excited to have you here. Oh thank you for inviting me. I'm glad they could be here today too i've been looking forward to this okay so the term toxic masculinity like we have all heard that it has been flying around absolutely everywhere but you decided to write a book called the toxic war on masculinity. Can you just share why you decided to write this book and what your hope is it will accomplish. Pretty taken aback by some of the overt hostility. That is now become acceptable to express. The washington post you know mainstream newspaper had an article called. Why can't we hate men. Or the huffington post had an article where the editor said. What's your favorite hashtag was kill all men. You can buy t-shirts now that say so many men so little ammunition. And even books. And even books. Books with titles like i hate men. And no good men and are men necessary. And i thought i really would like to get to the bottom of this where is this coming from and many people think well maybe you know second wave feminism in the 1960s but it actually goes much further back. And we. Deal with it effectively unless we know where it came from and how it developed. Let me give you a few more quotes so many men are even jumping on the bandwagon you might have seen this. Director of the movie avatar. Testosterone is a toxin you have to work it out of your system. And another male a male author writes. Talking about healthy masculinity is like talking about healthy cancer. Wow we've got to explain this if we want to try to counter it and and help men stand against that kind of. Denigration i read. Psychologist or psychiatrist i don't remember she writes for the wall street journal. And she said i'm getting more and more young men in my practice. Who felt defeated and beaten down. Because they're growing up in a culture that's so hostile to masculinity. So certainly that was the first reason i wanted to write the book was. You know where is this coming from. And how can we help. Specifically as christians like know. I think it's going to be very helpful for us as parents over the next you know many years. And the irony is the boys are actually doing worse today you know that's that's the other side of the coin they're being attacked. In the public arena. The falling behind in all areas of education from kindergarten all the way to college. Boys are falling behind. Typical college now is 60% women. 40% men. The falling behind a graduate school they're falling behind even a professional schools like law and medicine. And of course once they are men. Men are falling behind in terms of suicide rates going up. In terms of violence. Victims and perpetrators of violence you know 90% of people in prison are male. The more likely to be addicted to drugs and alcohol. Are there falling out of the workplace. We are at. Depression error levels of employment among men. And most people don't know that because they're not even looking for work anymore so they don't show up on the normal statistics. But depression error levels. Life expectancy is going down. Women's is staying the same. But male life expectancy is actually gone down in the last several years. This is you know they're attacked on one side and on the other side they actually doing worse they need more support right now. You know from kindergarten on men need support so how can the church offer that. Testosterone it's a cancer all of that but at the same time you hear like i have seen so many like women who are not even christian i'm listening to their podcast and they're they're asking where are the good men like where are men who are going to rise up and and care for women and be good but then on the other hand they're like you're the worst it's just it makes absolutely no sense you know they want two things at the same time that just can't go together. This is. Let me tell you about a really interesting study by a sociologist that kind of captures this. I should tell you that this has been the most controversial controversial book i've ever written. Am i surprised. Because you know my last book was on things like abortion homosexuality transgenderism. Oh thank you thank you. And it turns out that this one has been more controversial. I ran a class on it and when my students would talk to their family and friends. Invariably the first question was whose side is she. Yeah yeah i'm like. Yeah i'm raging feminist attacking man or a reactionary angry you're conservative and. And by the way the next the next question would be and why is a woman riding a book a masculinity anyway so i found. I found that i had to. Disarm the critics in my first chapter in multiple times. And what helped the most was i had a study. From a non-christian sociologists he's very well known in his field and so he gets invited to speak all around the world. And so and when he does that he asked young men two questions. You know all the way from australia. You know to austria. The first one is. What does it mean to be a good man. You know if you had a funeral and in the eulogy they say. He was a good man. What does that mean and they had no trouble answering. In every culture. Integrity. Sacrifice do the right thing. Stand up for the little guy. Be a provider be a protector be responsible. All around the world. So they know what it means to be a good man. There was another study by the way by an anthropologist the first cross-cultural cross-cultural study of concepts of masculinity and he found the same thing is that no matter how different they are. All cultures hold up for men what he calls the three p's. Provide protect and procreate. Contribute to the next generation. And they would say. It's just in the air we breathe. Judeo-christian heritage. So then you would follow up okay fine you know you know what the good man is what does it mean if i say to you man up be a real man. And the young man would say no that's completely different that's not the same thing at all. And i'll read this one to you as well it means to be tough strong never show weakness when it all costs. Be competitive get rich get laid. So i would suggest for many people when they read my book that kind of. Disarm the criticism because they could say you don't have to either attack or defend. Masculinity wholesale. Will defend the good man. Universal. Critically about what our culture imposes on us. As the real man. And so i use that as kind of a thread throughout the whole book in fact. So how old is christianity helped confirm the good man. And how has a secular culture created a secular script. Of the real man. So that helps us with like you you said bethany when does. You know people seem to attack men and then say how come there's no good man. That's because. Going back and forth between these two scripts. Yeah well it's been it's interesting because on the one hand you do have that. Toxic masculinity label being used. And then on the other hand like you were mentioned earlier. It's redundant for a lot of people to say toxic and mascul. Like the quote about it being a cancer. Masculine is toxic you know the less masculine the better. I've noticed there's. A lot of us guys either grew up in a home where he had a very strong. Male presence that we would consider perhaps now to be. Overbearing. To patriarchal very much you know all about the family submitting to him or he grew up in a culture like that. And a lot of us guys reacting to that are. We're sort of swinging to try to say okay. I can see how. There have been toxic components. To what it means to be a man. And so now we're kind of out to see trying to figure out what are we supposed to be. And largely looking. A lot of us are looking in the wrong places but basically saying okay i'm not going to be toxic like my dad or like the men that i've seen. Or the men that are talked about in our society i'm going to be the right kind of guy. And so. We think we assume that that means becoming. Less masculine in a sense like that we're going to become less of the real man which almost means we're becoming. More stereotypically. Feminine you know sensitive we're like the nice guy. And the nice guy is also selfish in a lot of ways he's still he's trying to rather than gaining his sense of manhood from like i'd be a real man he's looking at women. Insane how can i get laid how can i get women to want me. How can i and so you hear quotes like that where men will be beating will be beating ourselves up. I think the subtext of that is men are like this except for me. Men are men are like this but i'm one of the good kinds of men. I'm i'm a man who doesn't abused women i do and what we're trying to do i think. Is set ourselves up as. Superior to those toxic men over there. The problem with our cultural narrative i think is that. A huge cadre. Us men who have decided to go that selfish route are not getting addressed. Because all the voices all about this toxic behavior. And i think. Standards of the good man should be applied across the board. But can can you speak to that. Yeah well you know what i would like to talk about the sociological literature on christian men. Because. I found that many people found this. Encouraging in other words i'm starting with the good news you know the book starts with two chapters on the good news about christian men. Because so many people. How many people criticized christian men assuming that because the bible teaches them form of headship or authority. Christianity will lead to abuse and toxicity and dominance and so on in fact. Let's see if i can find. Does quotes because i'd like to actually read them to you. With a quick search. I'll give you a few. Conservative protestant gender ideology can clearly lead to abuse both physical and emotional. Another one it's no secret that abuse is prevalent and conservative churches that embrace headship theory by the way that was in a christian publication. The theology of male headship. Feeds the rape culture that we see permeating american christianity today. So the assumption in the broader culture is that christianity is the worst the christian men are like exhibit a of toxicity. And i think that's part of what we're fighting against. So what i did is i looked at the literature. Sociologists listen to this criticisms and said okay yeah but where's the eevee. You know you're making these clams without any data. So i. Sociologist. Who look at christian man and christian families christian marriages. And what's they found was the exact opposite. What's a found is that. Compared to the average american family man. Evangelical man are the most loving to their wives and by the way they do interview with the wife separately. The wife say that they are the happiest. With her husband's expression of love and appreciation. Evangelical fathers are also the most engaged fathers they spend more time both in shared activities with their kids like church youth group. And sports. And also in discipline like setting screen time. Enforcing bedtime. And so on. They also are the least likely to divorce they have the lowest rate of divorce of any group in america and here the real stunner. They have the lowest rates of domestic violence. Of any major group in america. That's exactly the opposite. Of what our culture is saying when they pile on christian men and i put this right at the beginning of the book because i thought. You know even christians don't know this i had to go digging into the academic sociological literature. To find this and i thought we need to bring this out into the public we need to let christian men know they're actually doing very well. You know compared to the rest of american culture. So so. This is the good news i have the good news at the back of the book when i first wrote it and i found it people read the the progression of the secular script and how it got worse and worse over time. They got discouraged. And so one of my. It was one reason they need encouragement is that we often hear. That christians divorce at the same level. In my research in fact i found that that's one of the most widely quoted statistics by christian leaders. It's not true. Why it gets excited. Divided the truly committed authentic christian men. Who attend church regularly. Some merely nominal christian men. So these are men who on a server i like this might check the baptist box. Go to church rarely if at all. And who actually you know pick up language like ketchup and submission but infuse it with secular definitions. Of dominance and entitlement. And listen to the stats on them. They're the least loving to their wives and in other words so why is express the lowest levels of happiness in their marriage. There's the least involved with their children. They have the highest level of divorce. Higher than secular men. And the real shocker they have the highest level of domestic violence. Even higher than secular men. Who identify as evangelical are doing worse than succulents so you can see why if you put the two groups together and just oh we're doing a study of secular have we're doing a study of evangelical men. Go get excuse statistics. They need to unpack these. And realize that. The the channel the challenge to the church is to affirm. The good christian man that they are doing a good job and then to reach out to the nominals and help. Help them to realize that what they're doing is actually a very secular understanding. Even worse than secular men because they feel like the church is giving them permission. Nancy you shared a little bit of your story about your own father in this book and just in my experience with our generation of kind of like millennials who in our i guess in san antonio where we live and just growing up and conservative christian families we were a part of some groups you know i'd be lp ginger volo duggar previously duggar she wrote a big book and she talked all about bill gothard and just the impact on her family that that had we were part of a group vision forums and you know there's others james macdonald people who have just abused that leadership and we've seen a lot of people kind of like rejected altogether like okay well this what you know being a christian means that i'm out of here and we've seen so many people do that but you are someone who. Grew up with literally a father who was not a kind man and. I just want to know even personally like how did you not just go okay i'm rejecting all of this if this is what like being a christian is or if this is what being like male and female is i rejected all like how did you. Get to the place you are now and be so amazing. So yeah. I do start the book with the story of my own father who was severely physically abusive. It was closed fist you know he was punching us and kicking us. It was severely abused and yet he was a regular churchgoer. Every sunday we had to be in church. And when i when i was about 16 you have way through high school. I started asking well how do we know christianity is true. I'm going to a public high school on my books of secular on my teachers of secular. And so i just wanted to know how do we know it's true. My parents couldn't answer that question. My dad was a university professor. But when i asked him why are you christian. He said. Works for me. That's it. And i had a chance to talk to you as seminary dean and all he said was don't worry we all have doubts sometimes. And so i did decide i guess christianity doesn't have any answers. As an agnostic. I'm a pretty committed agnostic in the sense that i realized if there was no god. No no i wanted to be if it was true. You know there was no god there's no meaning to life there's no purpose there's no foundation for ethics you know this just two for me true for you. Time and space. How could i have how can i hope to have any sort of universal absolute truth. Ridiculous. So i was a total relativist skeptic. My science class has turned me into a determinist because we just complex. Biochemical machines anyway. So i was very steeped in non-christian worldviews and i also studying philosophy because i thought. You know if i can't get any people to talk to me about these issues. Maybe maybe that's what that's what the philosopher's job is right to talk about what is truth and how do we know it. So by the time it was through labrie the ministry of francis schaeffer. I first encountered apologetics. We had lived in europe when i was a child and so all through high school i saved my money so i can go back cuz i really loved it. Which is in switzerland. And that was the first time i'd found out that. Christianity you can actually be supported by good reasons and arguments and evidence and logic. And so that was that was stunning i just had no idea i had never encountered christians who could answer your questions. So that was a big part of my life and that's how i became a christian. Social worker. And she was there because she realized that for a lot of people. Directions to christianity or not just intellectual. They can also be emotional especially your relationship with your parents. She helped me to realize. Yeah i had an emotional objections as well because my intellectual objections was so for foregrounded. And you know until i had those answered. I couldn't really think. To the next level the next level was. Yeah you were right bethany i did not want to be anything like my parents. If they were christian i didn't want it if that's what they stood for. I want it to be everything anything my parents were i didn't want to be. So i did discover that i also had an emotional issues to work through. And the the emotional healing of my past. Yeah the emotional healing of those years and years of. Very severe. Physical abuse. The psychiatric social worker with the name sheila bird and she was nicknamed birdie. Birdy help me through get started. On emotional healing so right from the beginning of my christian life i was not only. You know working intellectually on what is a christian worldview. What does it mean to have spiritual and emotional healing psychological healing. Right from the beginning of my christian life is an amazing gift. Christian psychologist. I read your story about your dad i thought oh no another angry feminist and then i got to the end i was actually you've worked it through you've come out the other side with a really rich experience of healing you know of experiencing the god's love has power. To heal the past to heal the wounds. That you bring into your adult world so. So this book has the. How's that balance you know the intellectual input but also the spiritual healing. People like that who were actually you know really abusing their power and these fathers were kind of like copying that and you know women that's what it means to be a devout christian man i don't want any part of that you know like that's what i've seen that's been my experience is these men who literally were worshiped you know like it's crazy when you've been there and you're like oh my goodness these men were just so worship but we're actually really awful behind the scenes and they were telling everyone you know i can remember so many of the things they told us of just you know. Like just a horrible ideas about what it actually means to be a devout christian man so how can we. You know i mean ginger vale called a disentangle from the how can we find that according to your book you know the toxic war and masculinity how can we. Address that level of devoutness in men. Google yes i would say two things you know what one is really becoming acquainted with a secular script so that we really convinced that this is a secular view this is not biblical this is secular. And then the other side of it is i do have two chapters at the end of the book. On abuse in christian homes. My dad would not say do this i'll spank you he'd say do this all beat you. I do have two chapters on abusing christian homes and. Sweet dreams of abuse you know just difficult marriages. Emotional abuse and physical abuse to do for three stages. And difficult marriages are ones that may not be abusive but. What can be very painful still. There's a. Psychologist who's done the most empirical research on abuse in marriage. Is jewish by the way john gottman if you might know him cuz he's well now yeah john gottman so he started as a mathematician so he does these very mathematical analysis he brings people into his he calls it his love lab. Wireless them up to test their breathing rate their heart rate this. The sweating you know the testing for stress hormones and so on. And and has a very complicated analysis of everything they say you know from put downs to placating you know this all carefully coded. And he's well known for being able to. Predict. What's 93.6. Accuracy. Whether a couple will divorce after watching them for about 20 minutes. And even when okay these guys the last 7 years these guys the last 12 years. So his analysis is really helpful for christians and. And what he found. The most surprising thing he found. Is it the health of a marriage depends primarily on the man. To improve the marriage you know to make it work. But what he's what he found is that. Women tend to reach out for connection even in unhappy marriages. Women are the ones who go to the therapist women are the ones who buy books on marriage women are the ones who read articles on the subject. Women are constantly trying to fix their marriage. And so he says. John gottman says. So it mostly depends on whether the men respond. Most of them don't. 65 of men. Do not respond to their wives do not hit his actual phrase he says they do not accept influence from their wives. Concerns and opinions into account they don't involve their wives and their decision making. 65 and these are not abusive marriages these are just the difficult marriages. Where women keep trying they keep reaching out for affection. Stonewalling you know and brushing them off. I give a lot of and then of course i give even more examples when we get into actual abuse. In the field terry reel is one of my favorite psychologists again not a christian. But he said he specializes in difficult marriages. In fact he won't even take you unless you've been through three or four therapists already. So you know he's he's the last the last chance and he's so successful that he's been on. Oprah in 2020 and all the big shows. Because he's so successful and he too says. You know in in. Experience with bad marriages. But the majority. And then there's a christian. Psychologist named david clark. I found him cuz he wrote a book called what to do. When your husband says i don't love you anymore. I found this book days after my brother told his wife i don't love you anymore so i immediately bought the book. 82 says. For the most part he's like he's like 80 to 85% of the man who come to me. Don't know don't know how to meet their wives needs do not know what women's needs are. I think they do he says. So the consensus among psychologists tends to be. The the husband. And so i think that this is confirming of the christian view of marriage. And then the solution you asked me what what should you do about it well matthew 18 matthew 18 is the primary passage on what you do with conflict. If they don't listen to you you bring a few other people in as witnesses if they don't listen to you you make it public. Or at least in the church. So confident in your loving confrontation. And that's not easy for most women. So i do go through it for example i go through some passages of scripture and explain better what they mean. Which might be helpful. The two words the two words that often used against women. Genesis women were created to be the help. Yeah yeah like the little sister and you know the man doesn't really important work and his little sister but as you may know in the in the hebrew the word is e z e r it's pronounce azer. And it's used most often of god. And it's even used in some men's names like ebenezer. To clearly the hebrew word answer. Does not mean inferior or subordinate. And the other word that is often used against women is weaker vessel in 1st peter. It's important to recognize that it doesn't mean like weaker and character we going to intelligence. It means less power. All through the old testament when god tells people to take care of the widows and orphans. It means people without power. Without economic power without political power social power. And when paul uses the word too and first corinthians he says not many of you remember. Not many of you were noble. Well educated high status etc. He's. And i just got to chose the weak to shame the strong he uses the word weak in the same way. Does without power education status. Money etc. So the scripture does not use weaker vessel to mean a character flaw. Testosterone does make them more aggressive morris taking and he's a good you know god made them that way. But it does mean that in most cultures. Common for men to take advantage of that. And then and then women are economically. Dependent when women have children. Most of them become economically dependent on someone. So that's an economic. Loss of power. So i think it's important for us to recognize that these are two words you know sometimes it's easier to pin it on particular words these are two words that we could help explain to people that the bible is not against women. And you just not denigrate. Women and in. Is realistic about the lack of power. Christians the church. The husbands you know need to take care of them that's that's the goal. One of the things i really appreciate and found really fascinating in the book is how you use. The terminology of a script. Secular script for example you use the basically it's a terminology this is a story that we're told. About what it means to be a man and here's where that story comes from. Any kind of trace that genealogy. One of the stories or one of the aspects of this secular script story as you talk about it is darwinian theory which you talked about in the book very very interesting. This sort of naturalization or normalization of certain traits that are thought to be essential to the masculine condition. Enz. You get clothes like this this is i just ran across this the other day. This is a conservative commentator this is ben shapiro. And you might agree with some of. What he's saying. Here some of that the script coming through these beliefs so he says. Marriage is not about your personal sense of self-satisfaction. Marriage is supposed to be about building something together a household and that means that all your concerns are for the household. When a man goes out and earns he's not going out and earning because he just feels like you know. I feel like going to work today i feel like ernie the reality is that since time immemorial is a story since time immemorial. Peripatetic to engage in short-term relationships relations with women. To abandon those women. And then go and hunt and gather. But men subject themselves to the rhythms of women. Women have long-term rhythms meaning they're the ones who have to carry in their children then care for those children and so men trade away that freedom and independence for something higher namely the ability to build a household with a woman. That is what they are doing and that is a wonderful good. Natural inclination. This is basically you have to go contrary to your nature in order to be. A man who centered around his family. Yes i do take. Aim at that. That specific. Who said yeah. Love them and leave them. Marriage and family is against their nature. Then they are going to abandon marriage and family they are going to leave it behind they are going to think well why should i do this this is against my nature. And you'll find that on the manosphere you know that. Collection of men's groups on the ministry that that notion is very very common. I take aim at that very carefully because it's not biblical. And it's. Let me start with the history you know you mentioned the history and then i'll get to darwinism. As you know was very christian. And so we get to see sort of an outworking of what it looked like to have more of a christian understanding of marriage and men. The also is a time when. Before the industrial revolution when men are working all day with their wives and children right there in the family industry. The family farm the family shop. A man is working. Was much more geared toward caretaking and responsibility for those. His family. The word authority even. It meant you have responsibility for the common good. You had a very specific meaning. The common good of the marriage the common good of the family the common good of your church your village that's what responds. That's what authority meant. Didn't mean you know you get to do what you want. Of course these were tough guys too they were making their way in a wilderness. So they had to have the more traditional male attributes like resilience. Encouraging mastery because it was there always knew new fields to plow. You know a new town to start a new house to build. New business to start so it was an interesting mix of you know a very christian understanding of. Caretaking. But also tough and resilient. How did we lose that. We lost. It started with the industrial revolution. Because for the first time you know what what the industrial revolution did is take work out of the home. And men had to follow their work out of the home into factories and offices. And you actually see this in the literature. All the time. People began to complain that men's character was changing because now instead of working with people they loved and we responsible for. In competition with other men. And it seemed almost necessary to be more aggressive assertive egocentric look out for number one no selfish ambition. Galatians says you know. Selfish ambition is one of the things we need to leave behind. But ambition and self-seeking became much more common. People protested. Already in the 19th century you see purple writing that a men are changing. The losing their christian character. I quote a letter to the editor for example that said men. Nana making success. Neil financial. Monetary success has become their idol. You know in in the world they're losing their soul. And so that's when you actually see the turning point as people began to say. You know. Men are losing their sense of. Morality and. Add work left the home as people began to build factories and offices and. Big universities and banking and you know a whole large public realm developed and people began to say well. This area should be. Run by scientific management principles. You don't bring your personal values into the public realm. And so. So the men were more and more exposed to secular education. Worked in a secularized workplace. Men did begin to lose. The biblical concept of masculinity. And i go to several stages and you mentioned darwinism yeah so darwinism. It was popularized here in the states by herbert spencer. And who wrote that the men. Who went out in the struggle for existence. I'm going to be tough rude crude predatory. Savage barbarian. Brutal. Yeah these are our ancestors so this is our true nature. You know i mean ever since the ancient greeks people that said oh no our true nature is a spiritual moral nature. No and i spiritually should. An instinct. People began to say no to our true nature is our animal nature. You know that. Biological impulses for domination and power. And covered by a souvenir civilization. A synonym of civilization. Wild savage barbarian by the way you might ask. Well how would women. Put up with such brutal men. Ants and spencer. Said well. It would help if they developed the ability to please. And then he added it would also be good if they learned how to hide their resentment at such poor treatment. Wow. So they message from evolution. And by the way darwin said some things too just not. Very clearly stated the intellectually and every way there and charity and then he said oh yes they are more intuitive. Of the lowest species. Definition of manhood. That's that's really fascinating it's really fascinating how that. That really put an enormous amount of pressure. Are women. To basically be the these moral civilizing centers of society as you as you write in the book. Then where would values be cultivated. Sacrifice altruism. You know love religious devotion and so on well those belonged in the home now. And who would be responsible for cultivating them. And so. For the first time. Ever. In human history. Women was said to be morally superior to men. No all again back to the ancient greeks and romans. People thought the insight into right and wrong was a rational insight. And they thought men were more rational. They were morally stronger. They had to keep women in line because they were the stronger one. Turn around when. In the 19th century people began to hold up women as morally superior and give women the role of being the moral guardians of society. And you right there was a lot of pressure then on women if their husbands were coming home after working all day and the dog eat dog competitive. Amor. World of commerce. And politics and then they came home they were supposed to be reformed and refined by their morally superior wives. And this is also why women let a lot of the reform movements you know because of urbanization. And industrialization there were a lot of social problems. Where they were being separated from normal. Structures of accountability like the family at church the village. More common in the city you know. Gambling increase drinking increase. The number of brothels mushroom. You know prostitution went way up. Sex trafficking. And it was mostly women who led the reform movements the abolition movement against slavery the temperance movement against. Prostitution and trafficking. Well that created a lot of tension between men and women as well because it actually the the script. Irresponsible and alcoholics and sexually irresponsible because that's their true nature. Has ben shapiro. The two nature. And then it's up to women to tame them. You know to bring them back in line. So that that language. Fairly recently. Your comments again from kind of the conservative world to the effect that. Women should thank their husbands for not cheating on. Because men are are acting so much contrary to their what is john gilder george gilder their nature. That women should basically if you say thank you for not cheating on me yeah i know dennis prager he i watched a video of him. And he was saying that like he was encouraging us as women. Do you want me to thank you for not like i was so confused and he was like that's crazy this contributes like what you're saying this thin veneer of civilization that men. Going to break out. Over the the slightest crack in that thin veneer of civilization. Are essential nature is. Breaking free going out like bucking all the rules and women are naturally i guess more civilized or something like that. This script. Of what it means to be a man so we actually treat ourselves as weak. We're treating ourselves as monsters waiting to to bust the boundaries. Mocked and ridiculed in the media. 40% of children in the us live apart from their natural father. We have the highest rate of single parenthood in the world. And when did that start. And again it was the industrial revolution. Because the first time boys were growing up without day-to-day contact with their fathers their fathers were not the ones. Teaching them and training them training them in adult skills. And they found themselves with a lot of free time you know unsupervised. Sort of the tom sawyer. And and the leading psychologist of the day. Said this the 19th century said this never before in american history have have boys been so wild. Never before have they been so half orphaned. And left up to female governance in the home the school of the church half orphaned is that amazing and and that's when they became wild he said they've never been wild like this before and you know when fathers were in the home boys wouldn't like this. And so historians actually call it boy culture. The idea that to be a real boy. We should be at tom sawyer a huck finn. It's a new genre of books called bad boy books. Rambunctious. So that's another source of what you're talking about boys will be boys. It's because they were being raised without their fathers for the first time in american history and of course what structure they did get. Mother's female teachers. So of course they were not going to give into those moral rules because. Then more morality seem to feminine. Morality seem to be giving into women. But no man's going to do that. And so you know morality has to be redefined to something that's truly masculine. No that is male to be a moral leader. In my book i teach people back again and again to the cultural mandate. The cultural mandate tells us how god originally created men. Originally what is what is genesis say. You make them in his image male and female in his image to do what. You have to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. And then have dominion over the earth. So the first part doesn't just mean have families but it means all the social institutions because they all go out of the family you know the family. All social institutions grow originally out of the family. So the cultural mandate is saying. It's up to men and women but here we're talking about man you know that they find their true fulfillment not. Breaking free from civilization but by building the social institutions. The meaning of the earth mean. Harness the natural resources. So it's all the arts and sciences you know it's not just planting crops you know being a farmer but anything you do. Stop the meaning of nature. So it's building bridges and buildings. The coding computers. Composing music. One of my students said what do you mean composing music i said well. So i said what's what's the violin made out of. And what's the bow made out of horse hair. So all the transcendent beauty we associate with music starts with the raw materials of nature. And so to counter that notion that there's only a thin veneer of civilization and men find their true nature breaking free and becoming wild. Which was a big theme in the late 19th century. Keep bringing us back now god made us. To create civilizations to create cultures to create history. This is the true nature this is not women imposing. Their expectations on men. This is what men were created to do and we have to make sure we have a very strong message in the church. This is. True inherent original nature. Masculinity what do you hope that they will gain like when they finish. Well i mean in a very short phrase of biblical view of masculinity. A god-centered view of masculinity. And to break that down a little to help them be encouraged by the sociological data that we sighted you know that men are doing a good job that men who do follow god's way. Are testing out as extremely loving engaged husbands and fathers. Like i said it's hidden away in the academic literature so we need to bring that out. I told when i told my class i was running a book on masculinity. A male student shot back what masculinity has been beaten out of us. Is it kind of reach out for something better. You know what do they do they pick up on whatever is in our culture. Secular ideas of masculinity that i like you i see. People who are trying to sort of recover the masculinity usually end up taking that late 19th century. Barbarian and savage and this is their true nature and this is what they need to reconnect with they need to go out in the wild and climb mountains. The cushion script has to come back to the cultural mandate. All humans but men's original nature. Was not to escape from civilization. But to bill civilizations you know to be an integral part of their family they don't find their true nature by escaping off into the woods and by the way that it's not just darwinism that was a big part of it. That was actually a literary genre called literary naturalism. Which builds consciously. Darwinian message into the novels. Jack london. Jack london. Read darwin as a young adult and had one historian calls. A conversion experience to radical materialism. And he read he actually memorized passages from. Dar. I could repeat them by heart you know the way christian's memories scripture. Humans are just products of evolution. Jeans in the environment. And the short story that i mentioned in the book is. A short story called the law of life the law of life where nomadic eskimo trib. Leaves the grandfather behind to die in the snow. It's and it's told from the grandfather's perspective so of course he's. Thinking i'm about to die i'm about to freeze to. My family has left me behind and then he says well isn't this a dog or any of you anyway you know once you've fulfilled the. What's your fulfilled the reproductive imperative you know like you're only job. As an individual biologically speaking is to reproduce so the next. The next generation. What does it matter and so the walls by the way the walls are closing in to devour him. And that's how the story ends but then he says is it not the law of life. You know that once you've fulfilled your biology. There was a there was a. Literary movement as well. That pound of these themes home. And that with the. Hero. Was often frontiersmen you know a mountain man a hunter or trapper a scout. Escaping from civilization escaping from marriage escaping from the impact of women. You know so that you can find your true masculine nature. So it's important that i heard of. Or the wimpy new age. Does those are the two secular options for. So it's very important that we go back to scripture and really work out. You know biblical view of masculinity. Which is exactly what your book does for us so we want everyone to grab a copy of the toxic one masculinity and we've had you on the girl to find show before we talked all about love thy body which is amazing and. Yes i have a new website so i need to give you the address nancy piercing.com. Straightforward you can order books from the website or if you want you can go to amazon itself thank you nancy so much for taking the time to be with us we really appreciate you thank you. I have really enjoyed it and i really appreciate hearing your perspective on these issues. Absolutely love that conversation thank you so much for sticking with us i know that was a longer conversation than normal but. It's such an important topic and with this war on mass you know masculinity this toxic war on masculinity i think it's important to have that conversation and i encourage you i don't care you know how old you are that book that nancy percy wrote the toxic war on masculinity is a must. Read it is absolutely amazing i know you got a lot of it in this conversation but i encourage you to grab a copy and dig. And you can go to amazon you can pretty much get it anywhere online any bookseller the toxic one masculinity by nancy percy is absolutely. Amazing and we did have a previous conversation with professor piercy. We have a heart of conversation with her all about the trans ideology abortion everything to do with gender so you can go back and listen to that conversation as well and if you're like. I love the book on the toxic word masculinity i love that idea but i want something for women like what is how should i be a womanhood how should i view femininity kristen and i wrote a book called girl define god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity that i would strongly recommend you grab as a kind of like. Beauty and femininity and identity and we also talked about masculinity and that book as well so girl define.com for that book or whatever books are sold so you can just search girl to find and that book will pop up. Please leave us a review if you enjoyed this podcast and even in the comments when you leave your review let us know who else you would like us to have on the podcast to discuss these incredibly crucial topics with we love you all so much and we'll see you next week. 