We are talking about same-sex attraction this is a conversation we've been wanting to have for a while but we wanted to make sure we brought the right person in to bring biblical truth in gospel hope to this you know it can be very sensitive and. Gospel truth and just that just sensitivity and love and compassion to this conversation you actually submitted questions to us saying hey here's what i want to know about same-sex attraction whether it's for myself or someone that i love so this conversation i hope will bring you home and just gospel truth as we tackle this topic of seeing sex attraction thank you so much for hanging out with us today on the girl to find show i am so excited that we are having ellen's back with us she's been with us before to talk about toxic relationships all link that episode below it was amazing today she's coming back to talk to us all about same sex attraction at topic we've been. Kristen and i didn't really want to tag along our own we wanted to bring in someone who just has a ton of just i guess experience in helping others with this so ellen has a ton of experience that's like primarily what she does is just loving and helping and just you know. Dealing with all things that come with same-sex attraction so i know this conversation conversation is going to be a huge blessing to you i know for many we look at our lives and we say this isn't what i planned this isn't what i wanted this was not part of the plan for my life whether it comes to anything to do with our sexuality a job. Our relationship family. There were so many things that are so many things that are not part of my plan this is not what i wanted and i look up and i'm like god like why is this this way i don't want this i know for me i have you know chronic migraines and they have kept me from so many activities so many events i have been in other cities at conferences and have just been embed in the hotel for you know the majority of the conference from this crippling migraine and i've said god like can't you just take this away can't you hear this and it's still there they still happen i get them regularly and that's hard that's not part of the plan that's not what i want in my life and so whether it's something with your health something romantically we all have that thing where we say this is not part of the plan. And in my brand new book kristin is brand new book. Not part of the planet trusting god with twists and turns of your story we unpack not only our own struggles with our lives not going the way that we want but we really bring you in it's a conversation as if you're sitting across the table from us and we're saying how can we have hope how can we thrive how can we live for christ and really glorify him in the midst of these circumstances that are not what we planned so if you need this. Hope and encouragement and just this learning how to thrive in the midst of the unknowns in the midst of this future that we don't know what will happen not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of the of your story is the book for you you can grab this at girl define.com or wherever books are sold. Not part of the plan. I encourage if you know someone that they're struggling to trust god. They're struggling with bitterness struggling to know that he is good struggling with worry anxiety i'm just struggling with crippling you know fear over the future. Not part of the plan is a perfect gift for them. So click the link below grab a copy of not part of the plan and while you're doing that i'll go ahead and get us into the conversation. Hey ellen thank you so much for being here on the girl to find show for the second time you are a excited we're excited to have you back i loved our conversation that we had about toxic relationships and girls all link that below it was such an incredible conversation and so insightful. Today though we're going to be chatting with ellen all about same-sex attraction just the relationships. With that attraction and that physical aspect so we're just going to unpack all of that but ellen for those of you who didn't listen to the previous episode and don't know who you are can you just introduce yourself tell us a little about yourself and just why you're passionate about this topic. Just respect that you that you don't want to talk about this topic because. There are so many christian women that are wrestling in these areas but. Women's ministry for an organization called harvest usa. And we. Focus on. Have biblical discipleship and church. Education church equipping. Focus on areas of sexuality and gender and that always includes relationships and so. I've been serving here and have had. So many opportunities to. Offer the hope and the grace. And the truth of christ to women that are wrestling. Which is a part of why i'm even extra. Passionate about talking about this. I need a personal help in this area can you share. Wizard is there a story that goes along with that what do you mean when you say that. Yeah well. Teens young adult. I didn't date much i wasn't really even attracted or to guys i didn't go through that phase that i think is maybe. There were. I just felt different i wasn't sure. What category i should put myself into but. One of the things that i did experience is. Not necessarily same-sex attraction but there is more of an emotional. I just i was all about girl world like i was very content with my friends who were girls. You're playing sports just having fun hanging out together and. I just feel a lot more comfortable with girls and i'm much more drawn to them. Adult young adult years there were. You know a handful of. Friendship. Or mentoring relationships. The the dynamic between me and these were all with girls or other women the dynamic just started to become. Very dependent very even. All consuming obsessive you might say and so that's kind of where that devotional book i wrote toxic relationships comes in of a. Just when you are attached to somebody that is really beyond. What god would have for. Same-sex relationships but also opposite sex relationships and the summary and i'll kind of close this up here is it. God has given us each other. The gift of friendship. Marriage a sibling relationships mentoring relationships but he never. Replace him with a person. And so. Weather weather that's opposite sex relationships are same-sex that's always going to be a key thing and so in my own journey. You know having not felt that typical attraction to boys. That became the focus of my. Needy sinful broken heart and i've connected with a lot of a lot of women younger and older who have had a very similar experience to mine were talking about this so when you started to recognize that like oh i like the girl world like you said in the emotional connection what like how did that manifest itself did you end up in any friendships where you were like oh realized hmm this is kind of taking an unhealthy turn like that this super dependent what happened in your life that you know kind of you look back on in your like oh i see how that kind of played out. Yeah that's a great question cuz you know one thing i know this is your heart too one thing that we don't want to diminish. And the gift of having rich friendships with each other. And so for me i think what began to turn the corner is an initial an initial friendship that was actually when i was at a college student this was the one relationship that started to really go down a more physical path it didn't become sexual. But it was becoming what i would say kind of romanticized and and centralized is our physical affection. Was just starting to be more than what god would have liked to the tune of. But there wasn't anything that we were doing that was. Overtly sexual that was just the physical manifestation. Underneath the surface is that this friend. I was starting to just organize my life around her yes and. When she and i were in a good place. I was in a good place when we weren't in a good place i felt threatened and secure. Jealous and threatened. And so it was those kinds of things that. Really were a heads up for me and i didn't know who to talk to you and i had some really hard conversations and. You know in that story. Eventually we just. Kind of had a break like she kind of broke. Ties with me for a season and is painful as it was. That's exactly what needed to happen so that. Our hearts could recalibrate back towards christ and really deal with the underlying issues that were even making us vulnerable. To that kind of a. To that kind of a of a relationship and. It was a lot of years and we were disconnected for. Quite a while but. The lord was doing a work and ended up kind of redeeming and bringing bringing us back into a really. A. Godly christ-centered relationship and i was i was her maid of honor and oh my goodness there is healing and change possible from these things but it's going to be a it's going to be a journey. So i know with like you know the talk of you know everything to do with sexuality being extremely popular right now i can almost become like confusing like oh i have this really good friend oh no like is this is this turning in a direction that it shouldn't work do we have something more than this just friends you know with a female friend that i i know i shouldn't have and it can feel confusing so how can we. Is this a good friendship is this taking a turn in a way that i know it shouldn't do you have any advice for the girl who's in that place and just feeling kind of confused because this topic is so top of mind it can and it kind of can feel confusing. Yeah well and you know i know we're going to link to some good resources to read on read on this topic i've got a lot of things i've written on this topic. Often and so i can i'll send you some links that we can yes let me just throw out a few kind of diagnostic questions. For somebody to think through and. So for starters it's going to be does your friendship with this person does it feel. Inclusive and are exclusive and like a contained circle of two. We've got a guard our relationship and nobody else gets in. Why is that or is this a friendship that is more inclusive like people feel welcomed. Into our relationship like neither one of us feels threatened or jealous if. There's other relationships happening that that's going to be. Diagnostic. Most of the people that are listening in on to this podcast. Women that love and trust jesus. And so that would be another question is to what degree is christ a part of your friendship now somebody may say oh ellen. We talked about jesus and we read the bible together all the time but. If that is in the midst of. Only the two of you and and you're talking about each other and jesus and you're talking about your relationship in jesus. That could actually be a subtle way that. Displaced in a relationship of his of two of his followers. They're focusing more on each other. Then they are on him and then. Another diagnostic would be is what. What is the fruit of this friendship like do you. Do you feel. At this friendship helps propel you out to love other people to serve other people like are you are you a better or i don't like using that word better are you a more faithful friend to other people in your life as a result of knowing this person or. Are you becoming an island unto yourself and other relationships are kind of fading out. Maybe people are even just dropping off the map because you are so focused on this one friend. That you're not really giving time into other relationships and. Young women i think even more than men. I'm not going to say that that's wrong but i will tell you that many years ago i. Animated decision of. Labeling somebody as my best friend only because. Two things my own tendency is to become very territorial and possessive and i wanted to stay away from that but. The other part of it is. I'm i'm grateful to have a variety of types. And depths of closeness of friendships and i don't want to. With with the focus of wanting to maybe honor somebody. And i might say even possess somebody as my best friend i don't want others feeling less than. So that's like a personal decision that i have made. This girl is is one of my closest friends or this. This woman is she is just a very dear friend. I just think there's wisdom and actually love for other people in our lives when we don't. But we don't categorize people in ways that exclude others. Ellen's book toxic relationships taking refuge in christ it's really a devotional 31 devotionals for life will link it below but if any of that related to like yeah that's where i'm at like i don't. I'm just struggling with friendships male or female and i feel like maybe some of them are not in a healthy place. But i know many of you are like okay. I struggle with same-sex attraction or i was i've been in i am in a relationship with a girl or i have dated a girl in the past or i know someone my sister or friend who i care about and love who struggles with this and you're wanting answers in this area and you're wanting us to talk about that so we are going to go there i promise and we actually. On our world to find instagram i went there and i asked you guys what you wanted to know about same-sex attraction questions and so we are going to get to those and ellen i know these are all huge questions and probably could have an entire episode in and of themselves so don't feel like you you know have to give a you know what a 30-minute answer to each of them if you have any resources you can direct us to that would be amazing as well but i do have some just some questions that i know we're reflected represent the questions of. Many many other girls. One question that we have is. Do people with same-sex attraction get born with that desire are they born that way. Yeah that is probably one of the hot topic questions and i'm so glad that that was asked so. Yeah i'm going to answer it kind of twofold i'm going to say. Yes in one way no in another and here's what i mean that. Same-sex attraction is. It's basically referring to the realm of our desires. Romantic sexual desires lean towards somebody of the same gender maybe. It feels like they're exclusively in that same gender. But like a married woman who is. Attracted to another married man or a single woman. Who is attracted and wants to be with a man who's already married. Those are desires. That are not coming from christ within but is this coming from who we are naturally the part of us that needs to be redeemed by jesus. Is. A part of our it's a part of our sinful. The has come to to change and make radically new as he does with all of us and so when i say. Is somebody born that way. Overall born. Are motivations needing complete transformation by jesus. Somebody may have a sin nature that expresses itself this way or that way. Somebody might say yeah like from a young age this is this is all i've experienced and we could we could acknowledge that with compassion of the struggle of that. But just because we're born again with in any area with a sinful inclination. That never means that we just go with it it just proves proves to us that wow. Even my romantic sexual desires need transformation by christ. Okay like i got that i got everything that you're saying but. Is this a big deal why why why why why doesn't you know why are you even harping on this like come on like don't you want people to just be happy and like shouldn't you know like shouldn't if i like a girl or want to be with her or marry her or whatever like shouldn't you just want her happiness isn't that what god is all about like what would you say to that person who struggling kind of with that that question as well. Yeah well first of all you know the idea that love is love. It is not a biblical truth. Scripture actually defines love jesus said this. His follower john says this beautifully in his letter first john. But if you want to know if you're really loving god and loving people. Then the evidence of that is by. Obedience to god's commands to jesus talks about this in john 15 and again and in 1st john 5. John himself is saying here's how you know. If you're loving god and loving people it's by walking and obedience to his commands and to your point bethany somebody might say well oh that doesn't sound romantic that doesn't sound fun. All of us when we drink in the messages of this world which paints. This beautiful picture of sin and beautiful picture of ungodliness. The biblical the biblical message can seem. A relationships the way god has designed it. And so the girl or the woman that is saying but i i want to be i want to be in a romantic relationship i want to have a life partner and the only person i can ever imagine that happening with. It's going to be either with my girlfriend or my partner. I just want to say to you that. The lord is the lord is compassionate towards you. In that. Because of his holiness and because his commands are for our best. He has made a design for us and the design is that. Sexual relationships would happen only in the context of. How he has designed marriage which is one woman with one man. And he has given a beautiful design for same-sex relationships in the context of. Friendship in the context of spiritual mother spiritual daughter mentoring relationships. For the for the girl again or woman that's wrestling with that i want to i want to both encourage you and challenge you. To re-examine. A couple things first would be. The the beautiful and yet clear call of christ that he's called us as his followers. To die to ourselves and to allow only him to be our loving lord so my desires. Sexual romantic or emotional those are never meant to be my lord when i let that happen i get into a mess. But secondly is. Re-examine read some of these scriptures were mentioning and ask god to disciple you about what is the real nature of his. Love. For you and how that relates to the way he's designed relationships to work. You know when i was. Before i was married i remember wrestling through my own thoughts of like okay. I guess just my desires and what my purpose in life was and for me i desired a relationship with a man but it was you know had very much become an idol in my life and i very much felt like i had to have marriage i had to have this romantic relationship in order to be happy and so you know. I know at the core of what many of our listeners are feeling is like but i feel like i need this in order to be happy and so it's different but similar and a lot of ways that the rude and i remember just got challenging me so much like okay you know are you do you truly believe like that you were put on this earth made in my image to live for me to be satisfied and me and ultimately to glorify me or do you think that you need these earthly things to be satisfied and that you cannot you know live a fulfilled life without this and so that was just a real challenge of surrender and i remember you know a verse i had read multiple times but just kind of came across in a fresh way is matthew 2028 about jesus and it says just as the son of man did not come to be served but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many and i just remember like wow our very savior who deserved everything you know like he is literally the creator worthy of all glory all everything he came down to do the will of his father and it was he came to earth not just to do what he wanted and she said what are my desires what do i want he came to say you know i am here not to be served but to serve and so i think wow if that's the heart if that's the mindset of the savior of the world the perfect god of the universe like that's where called to be like him and so i think as hard as it is it's digging deeper into our hearts and saying okay what is my goal and of this life what is my motive is it to serve and to live for christ and to point others to him and ultimately to put my desires and my. What i want on the altar or where my like grabbing this and saying no this is what my life is about i've got to get the things i want so i know that is a obviously something we cannot do on our own because we are all in simple humans but through the power of christ he can change us to to to want to live that way and to desire to live that way and i know as crazy and as. Opposite you know our world says happiness is found in. Put ourselves and our own desires on the altar then we we truly do find real satisfaction in christ and in that relationship. Above all else and that we would realize that true satisfaction. We do have a couple other questions that i want to make sure we get to we have one girl who says. I was very in love with a girl a couple years ago she's not in my life anymore and we never dated but i still am attracted to girls sometimes i guess my question is. How to get over someone. So advice for getting over a female that you feel very attracted to. Yeah i just appreciate the the humility of this person and. I want to make sure that people hear me saying. That the lord is so compassionate to us in these relational. Struggles he's not going to minimize sin but he is compassionate and he knows that we're going to be. In the midst of our entire lifetimes kind of. Growing to be like him and so. And that includes when our hearts need to heal over a broken relationship and in a situation like this when. There's maybe some complicated. Complicated things going on because it was a same-sex. You know a couple thoughts on just getting over that person or are healing and i. The first thing would be is. You know hopefully you're not alone in this if you've not. Let somebody else know. What had happened then. I would encourage you to find a trustworthy mature christian that you can be honest with and and ask for prayer and encouragement. Alongside of each other is spiritual siblings in christ. The other the other part the other thing i would say is. Is to really you know be honest with yourself of. How are you either watering memories of that person. Emails or pictures that include. That person that might seem so simple but. I'm to really. Have our hearts cleared our memories kind of. You know slowly dissolve of things that we don't want lingering there then we've got to do what scripture causes put off and make no space. For with romans 13:14 says put on the lord jesus christ and make no room. For the flesh in regard to its lust and so. Get get away from that flea. That's kind of a practical a practical step to take. Dynamics is. How are you seeking christ. How are you seeking to cultivate. Other relationships and. You know we we let go of some things but then we also pursue other things one of the worst ways or one of the best ways to stay stuck. Is to just keep rehearsing and remembering the thing that you're stuck on. God calls us to. To turn 180 and move in the other direction but again you don't need to do that alone the holy spirit is with you. He will provide some other people hopefully at least one other trustworthy person to walk with you in that process yeah so well said i was thinking as you were talking like okay. I know probably the majority of our listeners you know are on social media just you know all sorts of you know i guess show subscriptions and whatever netflix so what's your advice as far as you know shows that really. All of this stuff that just. Great question and easy to answer is. What were what we allow our thoughts and our eyes and ears to take in. Is going to impact our desires and our beliefs i mean how many. How many of us have had that experience of allowing ourselves to be exposed to something and we started becoming desensitized to it. And so. What what you're bringing up like i'm actually think. Pretty strongly on that is we need to not. Taken. That kind of stuff and so that means. Are you willing not only to end watching a show but. If you feel too weak to not watch it then maybe you need to end your. Netflix membership or end or take a break from social media i've done that over the years and i'm not just talking about not getting on i deactivate my accounts for some fresh calibration and you know what. When you come back a month or two or whatever later. You're going to be okay. And so. The answer to that question is. Yo got god calls us. To allow our hearts to focus on what is good and holy and when we make exceptions. And we think well. Sexual activity but. If it's if it's desensitizing you and making sin look attractive. This area. Same-sex relationships homosexuality. Is so celebrated right now we want to be really really cautious about that not having our heads in the sand. But there's a way to be engaged in what's happening in the world for christ's sake without drinking its messages. Yeah i couldn't agree more you know and i think using wisdom and you know our media consumption. Male to female relationships there's just so much garbage out there i cannot even stand it that is you know one of my passions like i just drives me crazy but i you know it's like we need to help ourselves out you know we don't want to continue to consume so much of this stuff that is completely against god's word and then you know wonder like why is this always on my mind or why is this so hard like let's be wise let's use them those are things we can easily you know get some accountability and say hey like will you find a godly woman or a sister or a mom and say hey i don't want to be consuming this stuff anymore will you keep me accountable ask me or you know. Be a part of this or help me come up with some boundaries i think there are you know practical things we can do to really help ourselves out i am just so glad we're having this conversation because the questions they just you know. Sisterhood is being with their thoughts so we have one one lady who's asking. How do i as a christian girl navigate my struggles with same sex attraction. Well i mean that is just such a big. Question. Some of the resources that my ministry harvest usa. Has. Is a mini book i wrote called sex and the single girl smart ways to care for your heart. That's not specifically focused on same-sex desires but it does include an example of a woman a single woman that's wrestling in that way. We've got two discipleship workbooks sexual sanity for women and then the follow-up sexual faithfulness. A practical discipleship for women. Primarily only focused on same-sex attraction but it's included in that but what i like about our resources is. They're focused on. The gospel view of these things regardless of what the struggle is. The interchange and then the last thing i want to say. To that woman is. And i've gotten to walk with lots of women in their twenties up to their 50s and 60s. That are seeking to walk in faithfulness even as they have same-sex temptations and. All of them would say the same thing that when they were isolated. The battle was overwhelming but when they began to trust and this is can be scary. It's not it hasn't been talked about as much. When they found. People that can walk with them and encourage them and even disciple them that's when they really began to break. Free of some of the shame. And the. Does the internal wrestling of this. The promise of the gospel while we live on this earth. Isn't necessarily the temptations are going to be it isn't that temptations are going to be completely eradicated but. The trajectory of the gospel is that. Slowly over time we become more and more like christ and desires. Can change so same-sex desires may not be completely eradicated while you live on this earth. But it's not true that this is a stagnant struggle no christ. Does the work slowly over time. To bring us more and more to look like him and i want to hold that out as hope that's not my hope it's the hope that christ offers us. I love that that's beautiful and that actually goes right into another question that one of our girls asked she says is it sinful to feel attraction if you don't act or dwell on it and i think this is a question that really reflects a lot of our a lot of the girls listening right now and i know like that's that's hard like okay what do we do with that is this simple is it not so what is your what would you say to this question yeah well the way our ministry. Hot topic the way our ministry. Would respond to that is we would first make a distinction between. Like willful sin. Send that is rising up out of our sin nature. So for example like i. A desire towards a woman rises up in somebody's heart. Is best they know they've not. Fantasizing it just kind of rises up. This would be true for me if i. If i have a married man and my heart lust after him. If i take that and i run to christ i asked for his help and the kind of the the temptation is gone. Respond to that and so. Immediately turn to christ. Ask for his help. Repent of you know tell him of any sin that we're aware of in our heart. Isn't going to be thrown at us from christ. Grace in the call to trust in him with humility. That's wonderful. I have another girl who's asking. If there are any specific verses that you would recommend that you can. Use when like that that temptation that thought comes to the mind or there's that that thought of like okay this is you know like i'm i'm thinking about this person or the fantasy or whatever are there specific verses that. That can be used to kind of combat that just like quick versus to memorize or passages you would recommend them to go meditate on that are specifically helpful with this. Well i mean yeah there's so many. I'll just kind of point you to. One passage and that would be second corinthians 5. Maybe 14 to 17. And i don't think we have time to read the whole thing but this passage i think would be a good one because it's going to point you towards. Christ love compelling us to love others and not live for ourselves and when we're tempted towards somebody in a sinful way we're not loving them. That's a part of this but also what i love about this passage is this is where it says that we don't regard anyone which would include ourselves. From a worldly point of view. But we regard. New creations in christ for those that have been. Redeemed by jesus and so a part of our battle against temptation is learning to see people. Through the lens of who we are in christ not from worldly categories not based on our desires not based on our personal definitions of sexuality but no to regard. Others and ourselves through christ i think that's one passage that covers a lot of ground for somebody to be. Storing up in their heart. Yeah that would be awesome and we'll put that verse in the description girl so that you can go directly right now and read it and meditate on it and write it down and put it you know in your bible or on your mirror or whatever that you can see it on a regular basis final question we have a lot but we're going to have to wrap it up with this one and i know a lot of our listeners are saying okay this isn't something that i personally have struggled with but i have a friend who is struggling with same-sex attraction and really acting out on it so how can i support her or love her or like i don't know be a good friend to her a good christian friend without supporting her choices i know that's like a really hard. Right now in this day and age so how can we be a good christian friend without like. Stamp of approval. That is that is a tough one but i'm going to answer it in light of how how you describe it bethany. We can only be a good christian friend as we are. Submitted to christ ourselves and as we make. Christ loved our priority. And we've already talked about that. When christ loves our priority we're going to be committed to his truth and committed to his ways. And that means being willing to. Speak the truth to somebody with humility with gentleness but also. With warning. When we need to. Is full out involved in any kind of sinful relationship but for our purpose today. In a sinful relationship with another woman. If we've not been truthful with to her and and challenging her and even. Warning her. Then there were not loving her and i want to say that. We need a lot of wisdom i'm not saying that we go. You know bash somebody with the bible but. We're called first to be faithful to christ his ways his truth and that's going to guide us in being willing. To go after a friend. In the name of christ and to call her. To turn away from that which isn't of him. But that's also means are we willing to walk with her in the midst of a broken heart. Leaving a relationship even if it's sinful leaving a relationship that has become meaningful is going to really hurt. And i've got a very dear friend who was in a lot of relationships with women. And she said one of the hardest things for her and her process of turning away from those is. To the girl that broke up with a boyfriend but nobody was offering any kind of comfort to me because i was breaking up with her girlfriend. Were those relationships sinful yes they were but. When when a good friend of hers a mentor actually. This must be really painful for you had that compassion that was a breakthrough for her. Turn away from some of these relationships that they've got involved in with other women yeah i love that you know it's harder it's more involvement on our part it's not like okay let me just tell you this and run away it's like no we need to be there and just you know praying for praying for. Got to help us to know how to love them and also to give us a pure heart and pure motives and not just out of pride or hey you know and then just for freedom for our friends you know who are struggling in this way but for you know i know the main the main topic of this conversation is for the girl who's listening right now who's saying yeah i do struggle with that so ellen is there any final just bit of encouragement or word of hope that you can give to the girl who is. Currently struggling and wanting that freedom wanting to you know honor christ in this area what hopes you have for her. Yeah well my my hope is great. A great for you based on. My own journey of transformation which you know as i've mentioned wasn't in like same-sex attraction but it was in the entanglement with other women but i've gotten to walk with so many women over the years who. The process was costly but now that they are. Kind of moving into a new place of freedom. They they would say what i would say. From psalm 1819 when david says. He said the lord brought me out into a spacious place. He rescued me because he delighted in me and. The lord the lord can meet you he can take you into a new place. Don't believe the lie. This is who you are and you have to stay here no christ will gently lead you to a new spacious place. Reach out to somebody check out our website. Take a step in the direction of what christ has for you. Because we know this is just. The beginning of the conversation that says a short episode and so i really encourage you girls to take those next steps you can go directly to their website you can read the different books and resources that ellen mentioned and will put all of that below but i just you know i encourage you to not let this be the start and the end like really take those next steps and find a godly woman and your church in your area where you can be open with and talk about this with and if you are someone you're saying like this isn't my struggle but i know someone who is be that friend that godly friend who's willing to offer that compassion and support and be there for the friend who is struggling thank you so much ellen for just taking the time to be with us i really appreciate it yeah so good to be back with you guys what a beautiful conversation with ellen i hope that this is been insightful and helpful like we set up a 1000 times during the podcast we only are scratching the surface each one of those questions could have been an entire episode so this was really just on initial episode to get the conversation started we're planning to take a deeper dive into the different questions you have asked we're going to bring different guests on to really help us tackle different aspects of this conversation but i encourage you click the links below don't let this be the end of the conversation let it be just the start and if you want us to tackle more of these sorts of conversations leave us up five star review in a comment letting us know that you like this that you want more of this that really helps us to know that you're liking the topics that were discussing and it helps others to find this so please click the link below. And again. The twists and turns of your story is available so please go click the link if you need encouragement in your life to just trust god more fully. Find freedom from anxiety if you desire that grab a copy of not part of the plan at girl define.com trust girl define.com trust or wherever books are sold go grab a copy of not part of the plan and let us know what you think. 