And phyllis hill they went from literally like high school sweetheart so in love this perfect love story to a honeymoon disaster and years and years of heartache. Tragic in so many ways it's extremely relatable and if you've been married for any length of time you know there are some ups and downs and difficulties and hardships and a lot that goes into marriage and it takes hard work it's beautiful but it takes hard work well with dr glenn and phyllis it took them a long time to figure out how to make marriage work and what was successful for them and how to love each other and they just went through so much pain and really what someone would call even like a sexless marriage to get to that point and they have now founded an incredible ministry called connection codes they have just done so much work to help couples like us figure out how to thrive and god's design for marriage how to love our spells spells so. If you want to be married someone today or if you are married and you want to have a thriving relationship dr glenn and phyllis hill are going to tell us exactly how to do that what's up y'all it's bethany here and i have little audrey with me for this intro but i had the amazing privilege of getting to talk with dr glenn and phyllis and. Let me tell you i learned so much from our conversation and i actually also had the opportunity to work through some of their courses online they have a website called connection codes and they literally did like so much research and founded different methods and tools to basically sounded like invented i don't know whatever you call it tools to help couples quickly work through conflict quickly understand one another it's just amazing and they reference some of that in their course and so they have been so generous to give us a discount code for their courses for their resources on their website so if you go to connection codes.co you can just use code girl 2020 and you can get 20% off any other courses the one that i strongly recommend which we talked a lot about. In this session in this interview is their foundations course and that's basically where you start where you want to go to first so if you have been like i'd really like to work some through something with my spouse and maybe you're engaged or you're in a serious relationship there is nothing more important than to invest into your relationship so that you can understand god's design and grow closer to him and grow closer to one another and avoid literally years of heartache i mean it's like any couple you know you get married and you think we're we're the ones like we have it kind of figured out we're going to be different we're not going to have those struggles those complications and then you quickly realize like wow marriage is work marriage is difficult. Marriage is not always easy and so it's just not being naive and thinking like okay we're the only ones we're going to avoid all this like no we all audrey has a lot to say she says yeah work on your marriages. So you're just going to absolutely love this conversation dr glenn is actually he has done so much coolant so much work he is a sexologist which i still am not exactly sure what that means but it is. Incredible the work he's done because him and his wife phyllis. It went through a lot of sexual struggles as a couple and now have like the coolest spiciest marriage and they are such an incredible like mentor couple they've been married for absolutely ever and the fact that they still love each other and love enjoying intimacy together and know how to resolve conflict quickly and still stay connected is just amazing so. Let's jump into the conversation with dr glenn and phyllis. Will dr glenn and phyllis thank you so much for taking the time to be here y'all are an incredible couple and. Community to get to know you i hope that you'll become like the you know the mentor couple of this community because we need it and we need godly marriages to look up to you but i know that. You have not always been this way and this happy and this connected as a couple so i want you to take us back to the beginning of your love story and share with us when you first met and kind of what those first few years of dating and marriage look like. Well we met at a summer bible camp. Phyllis is 15 hours 16 i hit her in the head with a softball and she's in recovery she's been hilariously in love ever since but we just didn't have a clue we had a fairytale romance i mean it was a lot of fun with high school sweethearts. Are we married four years to the day after. But we were long distance. Most of that time and you know we come from. Conservative christian background very much during a time when purity culture was. All that was talked about and so you know that was kind of probably that was the only thing talked about and so we kind of understood what not to do. Early we drew a line and was like oh we're not going anywhere near that line and i'm sure the listeners many of them will relate you know the closer we got. To our wedding you know the more we actually. Change the line but definitely did not ever have you know intercourse until the wedding night so. Yeah so that's kind of where our i would say dating long distance and very filled with the. The foundation of loving god and of just you know being involved in different ministries and so it just seemed like man we've got all the ingredients for success right there for sure so when you went into marriage you know. Did you feel like you were set up for success did you feel like you were going into marriage with like hey this is going to be easier or we've got this what was the feeling for each of you so your doctor glenn how did you feel when you were going into marriage as a young man don't worry babies i feel like i got married at 30 so i'm like yeah we're literally babies we done all the things and we actually bought our first house about two weeks before a wedding. A box is checked off that we were sure that we were on point and got everybody around us told us that we were on point you know we maintain a certain level of purity we moved the line a little and struggled. Cosmos couples do but we went into mary's thinking we're set up we have nailed this we love god with the passion we were deeply involved in church and ministry. We. Scripture all the time together we pray together continuously so we knew. This is pretty much a slam dunk we're on point and it's going to be a phenomenal. We are a little bit louder. Phyllis talk about that you get married you go into your honeymoon you have the slam dunk. It it really was a dramatic. A shock pretty much from the beginning so phyllis can you talk about that like you get married and. This is not all that i thought it was going to be. Well. You know even going into the wedding it's it's like we. You know that perfect wedding our dream wedding and you know we had our community with us and all the showers and all the things you focus on and. You know glenn kind of plan the honeymoon and that was fine i thought that was normal and. And our first night you know was that this beautiful hyatt regency hotel. And the honeymoon suite so it couldn't have been more. Beautiful. But i believe that we both with the whole idea of purity. That we thought. Our first sexual encounter would be spiritual would be like beyond any joy experience in our lives and it was. Really just the opposite for me. And i was shocked at how ungrateful my new wife was like what that was a big win. Dr glad you're like this is so great why she's so grateful was there like a communication that happened. Ryan that's the problem is we did not know how to convey authentically at all. And didn't have the voice for many many years after that but i had no idea cuz i mean literally for me you know we have penetration for the first time and there you go to wow yeah huge win and i did not know that my partner was like wait what. But i told her that i didn't. He knows stuff and i didn't at all. And we never talk to anybody. Figured out that so we did a lot of water skiing on our honeymoon because phyllis figured out if we're in a boat with other people ain't none of that sex stuff happening. Phyllis is exhausted she's like oh babe i'm just so tired and i'm like well we had a water skiing so much. You know it is so fascinating because neither of us were prepared. For the disappointment for the trauma like there was. For me it the whole experience and i didn't have a voice i didn't know how to communicate what was happening for me. And so i was just very quiet and you know. Water skiing felt safe so that's and i know how to water ski so that was a comfortable place for me but you know glenn had he had booked this honeymoon. Play that was like an actual honeymoon resort. And so everything was kind of geared like that screams loudly you know and even. I don't know if it was. Condo or a what what we were staying in but everything was like red velvet and. Paradise everywhere and i was just mortified because i wasn't comfortable. It went from 0 to 100 way too quickly for me. And then i just didn't know how to recover and i just it didn't feel right. But i didn't know how to say that. And i didn't know how to communicate my pain in it and so. Glenn was just so confused and so he experienced tons of pain on our honeymoon because of the way i was reacting to everything and. You know when we got back after a week. It's kind of like you get right back into. World but you know you're different now. And i mean even our relationships at church you know it was almost like no one really asked. And so we didn't feel safe or we didn't know who to talk to like no one even. Came into that to say. All right so what was tough for you guys like what's happening here okay i know that's a lot. Nobody said that and we didn't know i didn't know how to get that i definitely didn't have relationships. I had a lot of friends and i thought i had really good friends but when i got back from honeymoon i don't want to talk about any of it. And so we just really. Suffered in silence for a long time. And didn't know who. To ask questions from. And so we made a lot of bad conclusions i mean. I didn't take long. For us to actually just decide that i was broken. I accepted that i'm like yep you're right i'm one of those broken people. Who is broken because. Which is the typical male of the majority of 100 it's pretty close. So i was actually activated far more readily and far more frequently than she was so obviously she was broken because she was never like to say never sexually activated so obviously she's damaged she's broken and there's just something wrong with her and again i was not the voice saying that but i just said something. You know permeate the air and we just and again it's organic as day after day after day after week. So we just got accepted well too bad you know this poor woman i have to be broken in this poor guy happens to be married to a broken woman he didn't know and we had nobody in our life that we had any conversation about that. And you know i think it was. Communicated. Not necessarily with words but i. I understood enough to know. Pain or like yeah and so it was just like. For me it's like this this is what marriage is now. And the phone was taken out of it like i would say all the fun we had dating. All of a sudden didn't exist anymore. And i think i was trying to survive and i was trying to. Avoid. As much as possible. Sex and so i was always. You know running away from him and so she didn't want me to feel rejected so she became an expert at 3 rejecting so like literally if i would walk in the room and head towards her. Just to give her a hug. I wish you would move away from me so when i was pre rejected. And of course her help was well then glenn won't feel hurt and he won't be wounded by that but it actually just made it worse and worse and again no conversation no discussion we have conflicts we'd have fights about it. Anywhere and again i just went on and on and on. The biggest reasons for divorce are like money or sex or if you you know if you're sexist you have a good sexual relationship you'll have a good marriage so. You know if there was basically like no really no like true intimacy no sexual relationship what did that. Like how did that impact the rest of your relationship what did like the rest of your day look like did you feel truly like connected to one another or. What was going on like at home just like every day. Well you know you think about. When you fight it's like if you don't ever feel that there's some a way to resolve it. You just kind of get tired and then you. A little bit of a respite and then you go right back to fighting about the same thing. And that is a lot of what our early years were like if you really dig into our story you hear a lot about. Glenn dealing with some psychological disorders which neither of us understood or knew about. And that was the other piece that was really playing into our marriage in those first weeks and months and years. Where neither of us understood. What was happening for him and so at that point in his life he was scoring pretty high on obsessive-compulsive disorder and sew patterns were hugely important to him and a lot of pain when things weren't done. Quote unquote rights and god's way right right and so for us there was just a lot of a lot of pain for me i feel like i was in a. Like i couldn't win there was not a topic that i was able to. When in and you know. And. Sex was painful as an emotionally painful. It just it was confusing for me. And then just the everyday things like you know i would do the laundry but i wouldn't. Fold things just right or i wouldn't put them away just right so then. Glenwood reducing and he. You should do the laundry i come home and i redo it. Air quotes she did not. Real pain point that the towels are not folded the same and they're not stacked up perfectly straight babies thinking. I got laundry done it's a good day i don't think you know all the cups are turned with the handles. Facing the same direction you know the cans aren't turned the barcodes lining up which can fill us was unable to even notice that. Brought that to her which i didn't know i was having with me either i wasn't here to be cruel. But she spent so much energy trying to figure me out and figure out what the patterns for me they were organic they just flowed from within me where she's thinking oh my gosh you know where is the tag on the towel supposed to go i can't remember this day we laughed about it because she doesn't know the correct way to hold it down and put air quotes around the correct because there is no correct. It was very real. Her days thinking oh my gosh you know what's the next thing that's going to bother glenn what's the next thing that's going to be wrong for him. And she's been years and years doing that is trying to. And of course you can never. It is such an absurd long long long long long list you can never memorize it especially because it was not within it was not organic rice for me it was a genuine. Big win. But we were not. Often we were not even in the same city until the end but these were not things that i. In our dating relationship there was never a. Pattern like you you got to do this this way that never came out and so. It was almost like. I don't know i just felt like i was living in a movie that i never thought would happen and. And so things. You know we're really tough and again not knowing who to talk to not knowing the resources in glenn was a avid reader. Self-help books and i don't want anything to do with any of that i would i didn't want to read a single book. That he read. And it was easier for me just to conclude i'm broken so sorry buddy that's what you got and you know i did the mandatory number of times sex in a month. Whatever that was. There was not pleasure in it for me. I really thought okay this is just. A wifely duty thing. And no one out there having fun in this arena and so that's kind of. Howie functions until finally. We. Some friends at church that we got close to that we felt safe with they were a little older than us they had been married longer than us they had. Already couple of children. And one night after dinner we just maybe they asked you know maybe that finally someone asked and then we just said. Well yeah it's you know sex is really. Bad and you know phyllis is. That was kind of how that story was shared and i didn't even. Like i was like. Yeah i'm broken like i didn't even think that that was a weird sentence i wasn't even a conversation right it was a statement and they reacted as she reacted which was kind of beautiful that she he was more quiet which was good. Can you define broken what what are you saying what does that mean. And then i just said oh well i don't have a clitoris cuz at this point glenn had read enough to know. That a clitoris was involved and didn't know where it was but knew that that mattered and that had to do with an orgasm and it's like yeah i've never orgasmed and there's no pleasure i don't enjoy it matter of fact i hate it. I just endure it we just get through it as fast as possible. And. And she was in the medical field. And she was like. What do you mean you don't have a clitoris like and it was just really. Interesting cuz she was very kind. And very tender and just slow slow to ask questions. She said. I said. Congratulations you got lucky you got one you got to meet one of these very very very very very very rare. Individuals that doesn't have a clitoris and again she was very kind and she's like. I just can't believe that i mean well they have to live somewhere and she just happens to live here. After a bit said you know i just feel like taking photos in the back room and showing her. For sure. I think. Everything you're sharing is going to be so relatable for so many of our listeners here and you know it's just kept so private and so silent that. Unless somebody else brings it up like hey here's what we've gone through. Here's what we've struggled with so many of us don't even feel the freedom. Kristen and i will get email saying wow thank you so much for having them on our thank you for the story like i thought i was the only one in the world who was experiencing this and so i know that we're going to get those emails after this sharing that like wow i thought i was the only one and what is crazy to me is that. You know a place of such brokenness and hopelessness y'all were at for so many years but then we see you now and you are this incredible couple i mean my first exposure to you all as a couple was the episode y'all did on heaven in your home with francie winslow where you were talking about how you went with some fellas you went out with some girlfriends and you were learning in a you know a good setting but basically had a pole dance and all this stuff and so it's like whoa you know you're talking about that and really spicy up your marriage and you all must be extremely emotionally connected you have this huge ministry connection codes and you have helped so many couples but. What in the world you know like how does that even happen cuz i know when we're in this place of brokenness i can feel like. What a testimony so how in the world do you go from that place. Where you are today i mean i know that's a huge story but can you kind of weave some of that for us. Yeah absolutely well. I think i figured out number one i'm not broken it was. Like mind-blowing and to realize okay i could actually have fun. And i think that you know after experiencing my first orgasm i was like okay this is what pleasure is and this was like yeah a big eye opener and then. We kind of. Realized it was a lack of truly a lack of knowledge. Dad set us up so horribly. And the more fun it became. The more interested in it i became and. And i also was determined because at this point we had hurt each other so much. And it was like wow i don't want this to define the rest of our lives together. I want to figure this thing out so at that point i became interested in. Figuring out. My own body of figuring out sexuality figuring out orgasms. You know i think. When i started realizing. I was missing a huge piece of. I've really god's gift to us like. I just missed it. And so then as we started. Changing. And we were already people. Of influence like in the circles we were in we cared about people. We just went through the dark. Season and so when we came out of it. We got really passionate about sharing it. With anybody that would listen. Two things at which are very negative but actually produced a positive is we realize that if five couples are sitting around talking and sharing. Each couple things at the other all four other couples are doing great. The johnsons you know they're just doing so great i wish we were and they don't realize the exact same thing so. And we kept hearing the phrase in all they filed for divorce and they had such a good marriage that's so sad and again we were in a very conservative religious setting. And i kept hearing that one wait wait wait wait wait wait what they had a great marriage and they're filing for divorce so on tuesday that they had a great marriage was it a bad breakfast this morning i mean what happened in the spiritual realm people going to say just attacked them and i'm like what the heck are you kidding me this is so great marriage on tuesday. Meteorite lens in the front yard on wednesday explodes and the ruined and i just couldn't believe that even back then. I was like that just sounds it seems like something's missing that can't be true. That great marriage on thursday file for divorce on friday so we began asking questions initially kind of out of morbid curiosity to say what you know what led to this people go oh well we just fell out of love and the magic words. And then we began getting gathering information again initially no no business plan no mission statement we are just curious and we began to see the patterns and for most couples sex was a really big. Oh no go ahead ask your question. No i'm just curious you know you. Sex is a huge part of it. But then you create this you know incredible. Ministry now connection codes which has taken. Years of research and dr glenn you went and you know got. Ton of education and both of y'all did a ton of work to not only heal your own marriage but then to come to the place where you are now helping thousands and thousands. Of couples so. At the like from your own experience and from all the couples you have interacted with. You came up with these like resources and kind of i guess founded you know information that has been so transformative to your own relationships so can you give us like. Some insight into what this is that you have learned and what you now offer to help other people like what's the core of it. Yeah and we always say with the founders of the connection codes not the creators the connection codes are based on the human condition just how he is functioning this is true for everybody on the planet if they never heard of the connections because it's just the fundamental human functioning how we function so but the guys are the language and the tools. For how humans connect deeply in relationship. Well and you know when like all the pain that we started with on our honeymoon we didn't have a i didn't know how to say to him. I didn't know how to express my sad. My you know my loneliness in it my fear i didn't know how to say any of those things and so. You know as we got better tools for just connecting sexually and it became pleasurable. We still realized. That doesn't mean we're emotionally connected. And so you know as the decades. Continued we did teach a lot about. You know just sex i mean that became kind of what we got known for in those early decades is hey they're willing to talk and teach on this which was great. We kind of felt like there's still something missing. It gave him the time to do this research and and he started his private practice as a marriage and family therapist. And he also realized. When people are not emotionally connected. Then just teaching good sex techniques does not get you. To the place where you need to be and where you want to be and so connection codes kind of grew out of that is to teach emotional connection and to have emotional connection with another human. You got to have emotional connection with yourself. How do we tune in. To what is the emotions that fire in our brains and emotions are a human right and we're not taught that. We are taught that emotions are bad. We think that we can suppress them we can set them aside we can choose which emotions we going to have we don't understand they actually are housed in our brain which god created and they fire in our brain and we got to tune in and so a lot of our tools. Are very simple because we also realized that most couples. When are humans when people start out. They've got to have tools that they can have access to they can that most people can't hire a therapist most people that are getting married they're on cloud nine like you know they they don't think they need any help. And so we wanted to create tools that. Are simple and that can be life-changing. With very little effort put into it. But i was just going to say that was huge for us because we didn't know. But that was so fun the middle is always said that glenn has enough emotions for both of us so she basically. Didn't exist as in choose incredibly productive everybody wanted her on their committees and you know because she was amazing but she just was oblivious to her emotions and genuinely thought she just didn't have any that that they did not exist for her and glenn has plenty so you know our quote is met every day that could do anything. Incredibly productive so. It was it was fun it seemed functional and it's really just the last few years and and it's a continual evolution where we're learning that oh she's a real human well i'll be darned who knew and she's discovering herself and therefore she's able to share herself with me and i probably learn more about this woman in the last three years and all the other years combined it's just started to me and it's. Because i'm finding out how deep and rich and marvelous and fascinating. One of the tools that we created is called the core emotion wheel. And it was really what changed my life because i. I believed in the information but i didn't know how to tap in. To my own emotional. The core motion wheel is. Sounds just like what it is it's a circle it's a wheel it is it just lists. The eight emotions that are housed in our brain. And it kind of gives you an ability to practice and use this to say okay what's happening with me and you tune in and you go okay today i'm feeling. Sad because my alarm didn't go off and i'm i'm late already and i feel lonely because no one wants to get up with me in the morning so i struggle with that you know and it's like you're just tuning in. What is what your own experience is and for me that was. Years like it was it was fascinating that i really didn't know. That i had emotions like that was. So you think about that even in my relationship with. Everyone including god it was more based on tasks or a list a checklist. Then an emotional connection. And so you know this is been probably the other piece that. Is so powerful and beautiful because when you have emotional connection your sexual connection. Goes to a very. Beautiful level because you feel so safe and you can communicate you know without judgment. What is happening for you. And there's you know the tools make such a difference if you have sexual activity without emotional connection but you can't have dynamic sexual connection. Without the emotional connection because you have to have that safety and the problem is couples are having sexual activity so they're like what it was fine we're doing great and they don't realize that oh no no out of 0 to 100 scale that's like a 17 which wow. But there's so much more it's way way way way way way beyond that. Wow wow that's incredible and. You know i just i can't help but go back to the fact like. Listening to you yes you're at this incredible place but you weren't always there and so it's like that is just so amazing such a testament to god but also the work that he's doing through you and i know that. So many women listening right now are like yes i want this i need this so what can a couple expect i'm guessing. Your your course foundations is something that a couple does together is that correct. We wrote a book. And but we also created master classes. Modules they're only 30 minutes each. They have an assignment where you can kind of together. Work through just questions you know just a few questions but it's. It's all the things that really get you to think about oh yeah where did i first hear that where did i first learn that. Yeah how does that affect me and you know and it just kind of draws you into some really good conversation which you can actually you can do it you know with your partner but you can also do it in the group like a small group setting which is really fun because you're doing this with other couples. Whoa this is really really cool way and. You know i know that at some point we're going to run out of time but we've you know often love to share the core emotion wheel which you can download. For free on our website connection codes.co and we have a special connection codes.co ford / girl for all of your listeners. For the the download of the wheel and some other free things. But we would love if we have time does need to do the wheel just to show you that are listening to just to see how powerful it is and simple it is to do this yeah that would be amazing. How to do this but what we're doing is reawakening the emotions that are already there you're just not aware of it phyllis was experiencing emotion for years and years she was just oblivious she had no idea. That this was just a human condition and. Even that she was allowed. How to experience what she was experiencing cuz she had been told early in life to not both verbally a number. To not experience emotions so she just wanted to suppress it denied ignore it you know not be aware of it at all so what we're doing is reactivating the awareness of the emotions so that. Tomorrow afternoon glenn is able to recognize what's happening for him and turned to fellows and go. I felt some loneliness and i'm able to tell her that because she's been busy all day. I miss her i love being with her and now. We're able to connect because i was able to convey vulnerably which can be incredibly terr. I guess you're just too busy today for me which is what most people. So there's there's a lot but i don't want to run out of time i want to be able to get to this wheel but the instructions are on the website when you download the wheel. You want me to go first. I feel anger that my mom didn't have a voice and i believe it was passed on to me that i started with you with no voice. I feel. I hurt you know even talking about those early years just the hurts there was so much hurt. And even fear like i i really had. Fear that this would be our life forever and i didn't understand there was so much i didn't get it i didn't. I like the fear of just not understanding how can this be so painful and so complicated. With you definitely a lot. Of loneliness and sadness in that i didn't. Know who to talk to you i didn't trust. Anyone to talk to you. And so that i got my world got smaller and smaller because i felt so alone and all. Of that. And i know i'm doing what's called an issue specific will because i'm talking about all of that but. The shame and guilt you just. Just the. The shame in what i was experiencing like i didn't celebrate my body i didn't want you celebrating my body. I wanted to hide i didn't want to see my body naked i didn't want you to see me naked so there's a lot of shame all in that. I think the guilt is how much i resisted learning i really i didn't i didn't want to read stuff i didn't want to learn. I just kind of was really stuck for quite a while. And the joy. Oh definitely the joy of. The just the hope the where we got to where we are. And that we can share our story because of the victory. In just the things that we get to live now so a lot of joy in that. Wow that we miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss out on so much and the sadness that that's where most couples. One of the year after year. So much pain lots and lots of hurt for me so much certainly sexual rejection but just relational rejection just not. I need to know what to do because i was a lot. I'm still in want to handle now you're kind of entertained by me which is fun. Loneliness for so many years just missing you missing each other and me not having a clue. Cuz i married you on purpose you know we married cuz we wanted to we wanted to be together and very quickly. Together i wanted to be with you and i couldn't stand. I've been with you. A fear that we miss conveyed sometimes even on this podcast the message i don't want to belittle anyone's experience and their pain because it's very real. For them so i always feel fear that. Paying attention and being careful and cautious. Show me the girl that i missed with you so horribly for so long. You know i didn't tell you that i knew everything. But i forgot to tell you that i didn't so we. Didn't really start this journey very quickly it was so many years after. I should be close to perfect by now i'm not. Still miss stuff. So much anger. Just about our culture society or faith-based communities which is centuries old is not a new development. I'm presenting all this so poorly to people for so long including sexuality. I would certainly emotional connection. There's so much joy i'm blown away that we get to live where we live now a mesmerized by this that we virtually never disconnect. We rarely even have 10 moments in those last 30 seconds or less. What's 25 years ago i would have punched you if somebody told me that that's not a thing you can't have a 30-second. Resolution of 30-second processing through intense moment because we were experts in lasting 3 days. I had to realize that this is changing the world. It's not the time to defend debate discuss. Argue anything. No one's narrative is 100% accurate fellas may share something that i'm like wait. Just be friends with. Wow that was beautiful and so inspiring you know just to see that in action how that actually works and you know such a practical tool to something that we can do every single day and you know there is so much hope if you were listening or watching right now just know there's so much hope dr glenn phillips have. You know part of their lives into creating this and they help couples. Every single day you know go from where they were or where from where you feel you and your husband are right now to a place of healing and hope and they have practical tools and they have you know such a spiritual hope emotional hope for you so i just want to encourage you to take that step i know it can be scary and it can feel overwhelming but like they said you know with all the couples we all go home thinking oh we're the only ones that have a problem know we all need help we all need guidance and we have this opportunity like i was saying you know we live in a day and age where we can all gain wisdom from this incredible. Couple that is willing and saying yes we're inviting you to come and to learn we've been there we get it but look there is so much beauty that can be had in your marriage so i just encourage you don't stay stuck don't stay where you are at their website their resources their book connection codes i mean you can order that right now and begin working on this today you can also. Like they said download this tool and begin working on it today with your spouse and you can work through their they have several courses but you can begin working through the foundations of course right away and like phyllis mentioned we do have a discount for you and i strongly encourage you to use that will link everything so you don't have to remember anything we'll link it all for you because we want to see your marriage thrive we don't want to see you stuck in this place year after year in 20 years look down the road go wow i wish we would have done something like today you have an opportunity to do that and so dr glenn and phyllis i just want to thank you so much for sharing and sharing your lives and your heart and you're hurt and your hope and just your ministry and all of your work with the girl to find community this is. So cute and i know going to be a life-changing for so many of our listeners so thank you for taking the time to be with us today oh what amazing conversation it's just so cool because like i said they've been married for absolutely ever they have gone through the highest the lowest of lows and they're back on the highs again and so they have like the the credentials they have like the the history they have done like so much work and have stayed committed and faithful to one another and it's like. That's who i want to listen to that's the kind of couple i want to learn from someone who has like literally lived this life and they can speak from experience they can speak from the struggle they can speak from the heartache it's just so wrong real and i love how honest they are and so i really encourage you you know at the bare minimum grow grab their book connection codes and work through it with your husband and then definitely either work through the foundation's course which would be like the the recommendation start there but they also have the late night course okay so that's all on sex and intimacy and so if you were like wow. Like we really want help in our sexual relationship and we kind of you know go through the motions maybe one of us is having a good time the other isn't or maybe like sex just isn't that great or i'm just not enjoying it they're late night course would be absolutely amazing and again you can get all of those at connection codes.co and you can use code girl 20 for all of those you can also give those to people so if you have a couple that's engaged and you would like to give them a course on definitely give them the foundation's course that would be. Huge as well. This is been amazing i hope you feel inspired in your marriage or future relationships and have learned so much and my hope is that we can bring dr glenn and belasan again. But until then i will see you again next week. 