I think it is the most open and honest conversation we've had on the podcast are really anywhere online i feel like we've been you know married for 4 years and we've learned a lot and we've realized a lot that we don't know and we're going to talk about it today and just try to be as transparent as possible so buckle up if you don't like honesty maybe stop you might not like everything we say but we're going to get into it let's go what's up y'all it's bethany and dave and audrey. Hi babe hi i'm really happy. Okay tell us. Are you feeling to be here it's been awhile. I'm feeling good to be here actually really look forward to these yeah. Okay we have a bunch of questions that we actually got from you all we took a question pole and you asked a bunch of questions so if you are single or married we have questions that we are going to answer that will be beneficial to all of you but we thought it would be fun to answer questions that are more. Like currently right now how do we deal with things how do we do things how does dave think about things less of always in the past like what did we do when we were dating what do we do when we were engaged which is fun but it's cool i think to talk about where we are now or 4 years married i would say we have grown and changed a lot in the last 4 years so maybe let's start by just giving like i don't know. I don't know like. El a little recap of. I think. That a lot of things have changed more recently liked in the last 6 months. How to speak personally. Got to a point basically four years into our marriage where. I just kind of hit a big wall of. Disappointment. And. When to get council. Mostly mostly thinking you should get counseling i was mostly thinking really bethany should get counseling. But i'm going to leave in this and make it about me and my issues. And it turned out to be a lot about me in my issues after all but then i did go get counseling and then you did go get cash she did go get counseling yeah so you know it all. Is multiple different levels of. How that worked out yeah i mean i. I think overall i've probably been like. Maybe like. Less thinking about oh we need to grow as much or we have. Issues more like optimistic i guess would you say. About our marriage is definitely presented a more optimistic picture and i think that in some ways you have thought more optimistically or if even if i were to ask you would say you were happy. I was miserable. I think you were you were calling you were like i just don't know i can't really make you happy. And you know i'm pretty happy that's more like we were saying at the time. But i was pretty miserable for good reason. Can you unpack that a little bit more it wasn't her fault. Yeah i just had a lot of i had a lot to work through and i entered our relationship hoping. In a lot of ways that it would give me what i wanted. And through the course of four years of time i realized. My biggest problem. Was not. But i wasn't getting out of our relationship it was what i was bringing to our relationship was a capable of in our relationship which was very underdeveloped and very low. I'm coming out of the closet. They're more than one closet there are a number of different closets one may come out of okay so. We both went and got counseling last year separately we didn't do marriage counseling i went so i. Marriage counseling individual counseling and csx therapist like that's my personal opinion. But she says everybody needs it or everyone should get it but. I just think that you know there is so much more to marriage and so much like. Joy and excitement and life to be had and i think a lot of us just settled because we are like. Well this is just the way it is this is just as a couple or whatever and so each of us seeing our individual counselors helped a ton like i grew so much and i i didn't like i grew in ways that i didn't even go like i didn't go to counseling for the specific areas that i grew and then i grew a tan like i wasn't particularly going to get counseling for our relationship or for my wife like a wife which i was like. You need to work on these things and i was like oh so and then you saw. He took me through a number of different things very very kind man. And very knowledgeable a lot. Training and stuff. He was both a former pastor and had a degree in. I think counseling or psychology or something so. Yeah he took me through emdr which is a trauma processing. Program where are you i movement desensitization and reprocessing and so it took me back to some. Of my past my history family stuff and. It's still to this day i don't know that i talked about it it's traumatic but emdr regardless seems to be pretty helpful but. That was really the beginning of my. Awakening. What's really going on in our relationship. Standing myself. So where would you say we are now. Where we are now i think we are. Both really aligned on the direction that we're taking. We are very much. Going in general in the same direction. I'm very very excited and passionate about certain understandings and resources that i've come across and. You are very excited as well so. I think having that alignment is where we're at now so. Personal development language and i think that's given us a. I don't know it's it's. It's really cool because we're able to do it ourselves. In our own lives but then to be able to also come together and do it in your relationship that's i think become more exciting so i would say the sense now is a lot more one of excitement more a lot more hope. And a lot more. A lot more conversations where we are. Yeah i think something that. People may not know about us is like we are very very open and willing to change. And so that's been really helpful and exciting because. You know the resources that dave has found and that he has dug into aren't necessarily like resources that i would have found or initially been attracted to and same with me like i find stuff that he may not have initially been interested and so it's really cool as a married couple to not be like no you need to read from the same books that i am and you need to learn from the same people that i'm learning from and like you know just. Would you be willing to listen to this or to read that or let's read this together and even if it's not initially what the other person would have picked up and i think that's been used for growth because i'm reading things on listening to things that i definitely would have picked out or sought out myself you know. Of being open-minded some of the things that you would bring. As i was finding some of these new resources i was like well it's not this new resource that i found so i'm just kind of. Brushing your resources aside and i was. The jerk about it. So for a little for a little while. But you were able to look past a lot of that and and see some of the good and what i was bringing which is. More than i can say for myself. A lot of the time i i'm really excited i think that the resources he's. Probably the most about the resources that he's bringing is that i feel like. I think that they are very very like. Sometimes what i found in some of like the christian marriage books or christian just like basic. I think sometimes they kind of stay shallow and they say like they're getting to the root biblically but often times it's just like. I'm trying to nurse without being like you know. Exposing the whole world to me. Is i feel like the resources that you have found go really deep and actually talk about like the truth of what's actually going on in marriages or individuals and give really really practical helpful guidance in a way that i haven't seen necessarily tons of christian resources do so that's something. I'm really excited about it and it can come across like for me as a little uncomfortable because it's like oh wow they just like they go there they talk about all things and. I think that that's been amazing you know and it's personally pushed me to find people and resources that i wouldn't initially so like i'm coming out with a course for christian women on sex and i'm going to be releasing that like an online course and i the people that i had on like experts that i had on. For this course for people some of them were people i met maybe like a year ago wouldn't have on. That's what that goes back to what i said about a line being more aligned to where we're going and we were talking about things yeah i've been really pleased about that but i found it like so helpful. You know it's not just telling the. The line that we yeah. So anyway. Anything else before we jump into the questions okay so. First question and i'm going to go through questions but will we're going to have a conversation kind of like about each one so and these are questions that you ask okay does it bother dave that you talk so openly about sex online. The answer is yes but in a good way. So i am proud of how open and honest bethany is about sex how more how she's. Owning her sexuality herself. And rather than. Expecting or requiring. Somebody to give her something in order for her to be sexually fulfilled. But because. Bethany does talk a good bit about sex. It indirectly. Does reflect on me in our sexual relationship. And it challenges my. Needy desire. To be thought of as competent and strong. So something she says could expose me as sexually inadequate. Or or cause people to question like oh what kind of a sex life do they have. You know how good is he in bed you know just even. How would it take you know all those things that. I would question about myself. Of course i project onto well that's what other people could think of and. And then butt. The awesome thing about that is this creates an opportunity for me to. Face that in myself. And that at the end of the day. My sexual adequacy is not. Is not something worth. Keeping around or. Focusing on in fact that's something that i'm that i'm. Trying to move away from is that hole mindset altogether. So the exposure. Villa bethany talking about sex. Herself in our relationship. Is very exposing in that sense. Or at least it seems to be exposing to me. And that is an awesome. Opportunity. It's for me to basically challenge myself where i'm weak which is what other people think. How am i going to deal with that and handle that myself am i going to get my sense of. Adequacy from. What other people think even from what bethany thinks. Where am i going to have that self-contained. Inside me. Where i can be around people even people who think less of me. And still retain my form in my shape and and move into the world with confidence. Regardless of how other people. My view me so it's just an awesome opportunity to confront that. Yeah so i would say. Which is actually how i'm starting to think of all of social media. In that sense like this is just an opportunity but people. The way people can take you or or one of you or try to kind of you know. Ridicule or you know create these kind of categories of greater than less than. That's just an opportunity to. Yeah i agree i mean the reason i talk. About sex online is because of. My desire for other women to know like. Darryl moore like we all have questions we all have areas where we feel like we're not good at are we struggling and like i said sometimes in the christian world it can be like yes you just need to serve each other and that's where the best sex comes from or whatever like being you know whatever there can be like this basic. We haven't been able to like achieve something or. Going through the motions and we need help with that and so i never claimed to be a sex expert i am very open that we're learning and growing and that's why i'm constantly recommending resources and pointing you to people that i trust that i've learned from that he's learned from. But the fact that you're more of a curator trying to. Bring along. Resources that are helping you. That's going to be the best place to follow along if you like to talk about this stuff if you'd like to hear about this stuff if you want the course when it comes out just follow me on instagram okay next question how do you model godly manhood for your son dating or 3 year old son our first born yeah i've been thinking about this a lot more just really recently. Realizing that. I do really want him to have. Good male role models in his life. Not just get his idea for what manhood is from women honestly so he needs to be around other men. And as far as me modeling it i don't really think so much about me modeling it as much as i think about becoming the real thing myself and then just being around him so i just i need to basically. Except myself in my complete manliness in my manhood and expand out into the world and create. To expand my capacity and confront myself and take full responsibility and the more i do that. And then i'm around davie you know that's just that's what he's going to get i can't model something for him i don't have. I mean that's probably the biggest thing. Being the most authentic and genuine in our relationship in front of them and like learning to genuinely love one another and all of that i think is going to be. The best case scenario for our kids i'm a big believer maybe in another 20 years will be like wow i totally missed the. Something deeper but. Right now it seems like that's the truest way to do it you have to like. Actually go through the work yourself you can't take somebody to a level that you're not already. At totally. I agree i think it's cute though y'all i think y'all have a great relationship did you really likes you. Yeah. Be more assertive and. Demanding when i'm around him saying this is what we're going to do then he throws a fit or something. This is what we're going to do and let him kind of go through that process of you know life doesn't always work out the way we want. There are plans there are things we need to be doing and not every women idea that you have is something that we have time for so he needs to learn. You know how to self-regulate and all that but except. Except the fact that he has emotions and. And she is more than happy to work through i had much rather him throw a massive fit. Then then become the sort of boy that stuff is emotions and just tries to please everybody in which is something like what i. You know it's hilarious. Next question what did you think of your age gap at first versus now i'm 5 and a half years older i always. I remember when i would think about girls before being with bethany and just a couple years would be kind of a stretch like oh wow you know either i'm so much older than them or or there is so bad for me it's just that's quite a stretch. I remember you talking about other girls that were my age and he would talk about how old and i was like for me. She you played your age down while you're kind of like acted young and. You still got some. I mean i don't know why though to me people ask that question all of the time it's probably one of the questions i get asked most is what did you think about it because i'm taller i'm older and taller so i'm like maybe like an inch and a half dollar than you or. Back to the height and the age. I dated guys that were my age or older and i always felt like they were such a grandpas. And i just wanted someone who had energy and it was fun and young and like. So it's but it's like never been a problem in her. How do we find time to be alone and away from the kids. So this is kind of been i mean we just had audrey yeah it was three months ago so. Yeah it's still kind of a challenge with her but david does. Go to bed. Eventually he does sleep in the bed and he knows the different room and stuff that's nice. I mean we have a wonderful family that helps babysit and we can talk about with baby like for sure. Kristen's house. Nana's house. And we love to go on. You know go out for dinner. Just just now for my birthday kristen watch. Davie and we were able to you know go out who are one of our favorite restaurants and then another one of our favorite restaurants. So one of the things that we couldn't go see we want to go see a movie and you know. Sleep training. I don't really care about your opinion on sleep training what you think about that we used a little easy sleeping for you. Being physically exhausted like marriage wise just like we were just like it was 24/7 with baby and so it was the worst it was really really nice he was born it was like the lowest point. We were stretched to the limit those look for 6 months so anyway i personally was like you know our marriage is so important and i am going to sleep during this kiddo so we did and it was like a transformation we went from like having literally no time and like losing our minds to him sleeping 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.. Sleep training program and then she'll sleep 7 to 7:00 as well and that just makes it easy because it's so much easier for people to come babysit even like family when they know bedtime routine is that they know when the kids go down and they know like it's very very clear and they can also put the kids down and then hang out or do whatever they want so. Like a lot of times if we ask my parents or my mom to watch davie she would bring my dad and they would come over and then they put the kids down and just hang out and watch a movie or whatever so they were able to like not lose their whole evening by watching our kids so that's really like we also we've done multiple like getaways work with just the two of us and i think that's been because our kids have been so far one you know had been pretty well sleeping okay how do you resolve conflict and do you do it away from your kids so i was raised in a house where conflict was always behind closed doors the parents go behind closed doors to do the conflict what about you. I think probably mostly but i definitely remember complex do you remember i remember tension. Like between my parents but i don't. Typically they would always go into a room and like. Yeah probably mostly i think sometimes though my parents would result in. So we haven't. We mostly just have it out right in front of davie. I mean i've actually been thinking of that lately like wonder. This is a good idea but one of the things that i do think is important is to model. Do you know healthy conflict resolution. Cuz that's the one thing that can happen if you don't. Show your kids how to model. Conflict resolution where there's room for two people not just one or one and a half. People i think what can often happen when you. When i don't model that is. Your your kids going to get a sense for like one person is always has to sort of deny themselves. Integrity for the purpose of. Begging the other person happy or submitting to the other person. And. I think that's unhealthy so. I mean i think going back and forth you know in front of davie is. The positive it can be positive i don't know every. I'm still working on whether that's a good idea for every conflict. But certainly we've done it on a number of. Occasions. I mean. We definitely had a lot of interruptions when we do that though but that's the whole thing yeah that's exactly so it'll be like bum bum bum bum bum let me take care of baby hold that thought you might be some tears or something like that and then and then come back towards it so you were saying you hate me why. When we talked about fighting or whatever it's like we're not throwing things we're not yelling we're not. Conflict. I think it's fighting i think fighting is i think of fighting less of like your you got boxing gloves and you're just going after it and more like. You're both asserting. Individuality together you're both like. Cheers me here's me. Okay i see you i hear what you're saying but this is my perspective and it's kind of like. Who's going to who's preferences are going to have a say in the direction of your relationship and i think that's very healthy to do. I would say we both. Like less than just being like oh whatever you want or whatever you want we both kind of like stand up for what we think and believe now more and in some ways that causes. More conflict but i would say it definitely brings more intimacy between us yeah brings more intimacy in the conflict is a lot more clean there's a lot less lying. Finds the worst. Well like what i've done. What i did for years was basically just kind of strain myself to see it from her point of view. And then just sort of apologize for everything even though if i was really honest i would think that i needed to. To apologize for. Because you're trying to release or alleviate that tension in your relationship so you deny your integrity. In order to have peace which is. It comes at a super high cost like super duper an example might be like. So you're not being truthful you're not being honest but not because you genuinely care about the other person but just because you want or you want happiness or you just don't want to deal with it so there's so much selflessly go about like giving up your rights in a sense or. You saying okay we'll do that even though i don't want to but it's out of a place of like honesty and selflessness and love and then there's doing that just because you want to avoid and you don't want to deal with it and you just want to try to make the other person happy and that's not. Yeah if you're going to put the other person first. Heal you do it by choice you got to do it by choice if you don't do it by choice. Are you offload your to sit your responsibility on to the other person then that's just you're going to get ton of bitterness yeah exactly it's a very. It's very cause and effect very predictable. The question that was at the end and then we have questions for. What do you and bethany disagree on and how do you handle the difference of opinions okay so this is kind of the stuff like. I don't know a lot of people don't want to talk about like the genuine side of things but i feel like. So what do we disagree on and how do we handle the difference. Oh we do we still disagree on the end times. Okay so i used to be so passionate about like my view of the end times and it was like a make or break it and a dating relationship. And i've just there are so many people i respect to disagree on it that it's less of like a make it or break a deal obviously cuz i'm married to david and we have different perspectives. I mean that's an easy one i use strong language we talked about that before and bethany does not agree. With that she calls me a. She's like it's a. Play what do you say it's like a homeschool it's like the homeschooler who kind of. Is like stretching his. Verbal muscles by using strong language. Communicate. Okay well. I hear you. Would you rather use 25 words. Can you communicate it just as. Okay so dave i didn't bring it up. Stop dave did not use strong language when we started dating. Play spotify. Summertime i don't know i got religion i got religion when we got together. Which is a bad. Bad idea. Okay i called someone a joke yesterday and someone got mad at me for it but it was because of dad literally was wait you called him a drink. And like i don't like necessarily to be like i don't like that in front of me i don't like that language like to be. Communicated to in that way and i definitely don't like it in front of the kids but something that i have really come to is like we are two individual people yes we're married and we have a covenant that we're a part of but i am not going to force him to be a version of him that i think i don't know what or need like where i think it's so important to allow each other to just like. He's got the holy spirit and he can do like i'm not going to be his holy spirit i'm not going to be his mom i'm his wife and i love him and i'm not going to force him to be everything that i think he needs to be in order for us to have like a great relationship so in some ways i appreciate that he doesn't just like cater and bow down to everything that i want it's like he's going to be his own man. What do you think. Is best. That's strong language for him i don't know what do you think she thinks it's. Well i think that i got a new outfit for his birthday and i told him it was so sexy outfit. Antonia i mean i think. I think she says that but at the same time it's going like. I think sometimes you overdo it because you think i like it and i'm like in my head i'm like really that's a different question whether or not i do it that's probably true but i did hear so here's something funny i heard a woman i greatly respect a very godly woman someone i look up to so much she shared how this is when it started oh my gosh okay so i just came home and told dave that this very godly. But she told me she's like something you don't know about me is that my husband chris is like a sailor and she's like he has been that way from day one and he still lives and people are sometimes very surprised when they meet him because he is just that's the way he is and she i really admired and appreciated how she you know she is realized like i can't change him i'm not going to change him so i'm just going to love them and you know they have a great marriage and they've worked through a ton of stuff and i really respect that and so i want to be that kind of like i don't want to constantly be trying to like mold you inform you and like here we just see you try. Hey look. What is one thing christian women should know. What is one thing christian women should know about how a man thinks when it comes to romantic relationships. One thing christian women should know about how a man thinks when it comes to romantic relationships i think this was asked for a single woman's perspective so this is single women kind of wanting to know how about dating and. Okay so. A lot of meant yes some men are different than others. My opinion is that some men are more healthy than others. So a man can behave in a certain way for a number of different reasons. But a couple of examples of some guys would be some guys like to more be pursued. You know even a lot of a lot of guys that have like. Maybe their leaders in their field or something like that but then when it comes to intimate relationships they kind of want to be pursued. Other guys want to be the pursuer they want to kind of go after. Someone they're interested in. And. It really just depends but and that goes actually that goes for a lot of girls too i would say butt. That behavior can also be due to other factors for example god doesn't want to put himself out there because he's worried about rejection so he's always kind of like trying to catch the vibe before he. Takes a step which is always just. Cheating you know it's it's it's it's. Just basically trying to get without. I like you. If she will be a low risk and then i'm going to go out those those guys are. You know they have weave we have insecurities. And that. Might cause less friction in some ways but it. Turns out to be. Bad recipe later on. So. Yeah so the question being how do men think. I think that those are some examples of how of reasons why the behavior what the behavior can. I don't think that it means that just because a man like. Does about it a little immaturely that he's like that's a red flag off the bat you know why. Well because i think that. You know none of us are perfect and you know if he's like specially if he's younger you know if you're younger you know maybe his first relationship it might be you know so i think. You don't have to be like oh he's not an option because he asked a friend if i was interested first you know i think it's important to take the time to get to know him and try to unless they're obviously you know if he's like a serial dater or you've heard serial datejust. Don't be like but sir. Don't be like megan. Oh yeah i got it right. Yeah like you know it's important to it's important to figure this stuff out you can actually go to. Recommend the most if you're single one would be the book that i created all about helping you a single woman thrive and really becoming secure in your identity in christ i think that's the most important thing is making sure you're genuinely ready for a relationship before you even worry about him that one's actually on my website which is best in bethany field.com 150 questions. Do you think men christian single men long for marriage the same way that women do women women do if not how is it different for the boys. No i'm just trying to think of how to say this. So meant yeah many men do long for marriage many christian men do long for marriage and then some. Long for marriage less than some guys tend to be more like conquest oriented they more want. Like conquer and try to get the girl but then when it comes to actually long-term commitment and the day-to-day choices. A positive thing. And then plenty of men do want marriage they do want that they do want to give their lives to one person. And do you want to commit. It really depends what is that thing you told me this is kind of random but it was was it in a quote about like it was like don't grow before you grow the most during marriage or what was that you. You're not you're never it was something like you're never ready for marriage marriage makes you ready for me yes yes yes yes yes yes that was it nailed it. Play marriage. It's a really good book but one that. I think because it's not like the traditional christian book and like actually don't recommend it because we're only in the first time. Chapter and i don't recommend. We might not agree with 100% obviously but speak for yourself yeah i like that like you know you want to be with someone who is genuine and authentic and you know has a genuine relationship with christ but outside of that like you're going to grow together in marriage yeah i know what's going to make you right yeah yeah and you're not you know i'm not married to my marriage. At the end of the day i mean. I'm more interested in working on myself. In the context of my marriage than i am and working on my marriage actually. Barely even. And other than that you're together. Are you working but you're together like the biggest growth we've seen in our marriage i guess would be when we individually worked on ourselves. You work on yourself. Where in the context of being. Close and intimate with this other person yeah so the more you can be yourself. Hold on to yourself. Wildin with this other person. Lemoore elevates both your development and the system of your rel. Get individual counseling and work on yourself before being like we're going to go get marriage counseling wouldn't you agree. It really depends cuz. Counseling so. You would have to like. What kind of council. There's a lot of individual counseling that's just going to kind of make you. You know i'm so sorry for yourself onto mean people in your life and stuff and i'm not really about that i don't think that really helps people as much as i would recommend this is my personal recommendation i got counseling through the association of certified biblical counselors acbc i'll link them below i mean i think we link them in every podcast but you can literally search association of certified biblical counselors and you can find a list of their recommended counselors that are trained through them and they're all going to be like biblically-based and i think that you know they don't come from that like victim mentality at all and they're just incredible so that's why they don't let you. And it's not that i don't. 100%. Agree with. Proceed in the paradigm but. I have realized for my own. Working development that. It's not all bad to just tell someone like hey. You need to like get a hold of yourself and. You know. Stop treating yourself like you're freaking. They're pretty straightforward pretty black and white pretty much like here's what the bible says. Circle you know coming back. You know and be like. Maybe there is something to. Just like treating someone like they can. Make a change rather not always sort of. Catering to the lowest common denominator. She sounds like a. She sounds like a lot of fun and yet we met her i met her she seemed like a really really fun just a really fun free individual which i appreciate. Yeah it's going to be great. So you can in a lot of them are free so all that to say my counseling was totally free we paid. Database is free but you can email them and ask about their rates and like i said mine. But there are you can find marriage counselors you can find. Credentials so you can find anyone okay let's see anything else you want to say before we wrap it up. Oh i thought the final question sorry. Are you going to start guide to find or man to find. I used to think that never in a million years would i ever do that. And. That would have. I am interested in. Bringing people together around ideas that can be beneficial to them and others but. I don't know if that looks like a guy to find. So you're saying there's a chance i don't know. I don't know i think that i think that guy's i think that guys need a lot of help to get out of their own butts. Our own butts all include myself. Disgusting. There's a lot of self-serving. Happening amongst us guys. A lot of us. Especially the one those of us that think that we are better than those toxic men who you know hurt women and stuff i think we're just as emotionally abusive just as. Just as selfish if not more so and probably even more self-deceived. There's definitely a need but there are also a lot of resources cropping up all over the place to help guys and they're not all just black and do these kind of like. Cliche alpha transformation they're they're kind of like more integrated and they tend to. That would be good for guys we have two interviews that are coming up nancy pearcey professor piercy we've had her on before she has a book that's coming out on masculinity and so we're going to be interviewing her that's going to be amazing and then going strong he has a book i'm not going anywhere else so we have those two podcasts that are coming out but if you're like oh i'm curious to learn more books that we are i am interested in person is interested in that girl to find specifically it's nancy piercing and strong so you can look up their names and find resources for them nancy has so many great books she's incredible. All right so next steps if you're wanting to know okay like anything i don't know anything that any resources that we have if you are a woman who's wanting to just like get a basic grasp on like a god's design for sexuality your sexuality then i would definitely recommend the book kristen and i wrote text period that's where we're married or single women. God's design for marriage if you're like i grew up on purity culture on my sexuality feels really like confusing or either a lot of shame around it or you're just like marriage isn't really what i thought it would be sexually that's just that's like a foundation so i definitely recommend starting there if you're single and you're like i want to learn more about like love and dating and romance and are both love to find is where you want to start with that yeah so. You can kind of go through either one of those hats and everything there is that girl to find out comma thank you so much for taking the time to be here it's too short we're only we're under an hour. And leave a review and let us know what you thought of this and i will see you all again next week so good. 