Today on the girl defined show i'm talking with a man named blake howard who was once a drag queen. Living a homosexual lifestyle and identifying as a gay man. He gives us a peek behind the curtains into the drug industry what it's all about how a person gets into drag what the appeal is for grown men dressing up as provocative sexualized women. And why it's growing in popularity all across our country and all across the world and for him living in that world living in that scene he shares how he thought it was the answer to finding his identity to finding his worth and value to finding acceptance and belonging but in the end it ultimately leaves him more empty feeling more alone more isolated than before and it's not until he really comes to christ find jesus and surrenders every part of his life to him that he truly finds life he's going to share his testimony in his powerful it will help us unpack some of the confusion that we feel around around the drag industry just answering some of our questions helping us grow in compassion to realize that these people are just regular people just like us struggling in so many ways longing for that sense of belonging that sense of identity but looking for it in all the wrong places and blake is going to really show us the power of the gospel and it's transforming work in his life as we listen to history today hey sisterhood it is kristen here and this is going to be a really special kind of unique episode because as you can see one i have a male on as a guest. Blake welcome to be here. I'm so glad you're here we normally don't have guys on the girl to find show so you know a little extra special there but what we're going to be talking about today is something that is. A really it's a very common topic in our society talking about drag queens lgbtq issues the lifestyle but today we have a unique opportunity to talk to a man blake who was in that side of things you know in that world as a drag queen but god saved him and brought him out and opened his eyes to the beauty of the gospel the transforming work of christ and changing our desires giving us some new desires for him to worship him on the throne and so blake has a really powerful testimony and i'm excited about digging in with you blake just into some of the specific aspects that even the drag movement and how it's growing in popularity and now i feel like i'm seeing it everywhere but five years ago if it felt very much under the radar so we're going to get into all of that kind of the behind the scenes and then really try to look at it through a gospel. Christ centered loving gospel lens and so thank you so much for being here with us today to talk about this really important topic well thank you so much for having me i'm super excited to share my story and and kind of shed some light. There is very few ministers that. I feel comfortable talking about this this particular subject because. Scared to talk about it cuz they don't want to hate that is going to come with it so i totally. I'm totally open to kind of just talked about it and really get truth out there. Yes and i love that i so appreciate that and you'll know blake i called a fine we are not afraid to talk about. The hard stuff the controversial stuff in fact there are a lot of people who hate us and don't like what we do because of that but it's the truth that sets us free and as believers who have the truth who have god's word who have his design who have the understanding of the gospel and the transforming work of christ. It's really unloving to stay silent to not talk about the truth right and to not bring christ into every aspect there is no conversation there is no sin there is no struggle that is beyond the redeeming work and power of christ and so we go there here at girl define in fact i know you wrote a book we wrote a book too that was kind of like a little hot button book that you know people love and people hate and it's called sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart and it's taking a deep dive into god to find sexuality which is a very controversial topic but one that we've heard over the past few years has brought so much freedom to women who are wrestling with a you know all sorts of different sexual struggles just like i've had my struggles and you've had your struggles but are finding freedom in the power of the gospel and the truth of god's word and i know you wrote a book that recently came out called from mascara to manhood is that right now so i i was actually. It took me about 2 years to write and i wrote it about. I guess it was about. This years ago. And then i. It took me a process i couldn't figure out like the editing and and all that kind of stuff and then i. Directed me to a publishing company and they took care of everything for me. And then at the time my wife and i were like freshly married and so we are broke and we didn't have any money you know. And we're fresh out of college we're fresh out of ministry school so we were just kind of like. When server jobs and we are just trying to like make ends meet basically. And so unfortunately my book got pushed to the back burner. And while in the process of editing my book my editor contacted me from the company and was like. Add going through your book and editing it like literally it has like ministered to me i love this book i'm so excited about this book and it needs to happen. That's awesome and so she literally actually reached out and was. How much do you lack and you know i was like well this amount. So she contacted the actually the the guy who was doing everything for me with the book and was like i'm going to pay off the balance. And literally pay the balance of my book and then it actually ended up coming out that very next year. Just in time for gay pride in june. It got hit on amazon in june and it was just like. It was just amazing because i was so. Frustrated in that time about the book and like how i wanted it out but we just couldn't get it there at the time and then literally how the lord orchestrated every piece of the puzzle specifically to release it. In that time was just incredible to watch. I love when you get to see him work so clearly okay so you have a book called from mascara to manhood you're obviously married now to a woman a believer. But at some point in your past you were a drag queen. And you know obviously two very different lifestyles. What's happening today and what was happening then so take us back in time way back in time to your childhood you're growing up life you don't have to get super detailed but just give all of us an overview of what your childhood looked like where you religious were you not what was your family dynamics and then we'll kind of get into your story a little bit more into your teen years after that so i grew up in a pretty conservative household we grew up i grew up in the bible belt in georgia. I actually just left my family from a vacation so i think i have more of a georgia accent than i normally do but. I grew up in georgia you know we we did it in church we attended a megachurch and it was it's an amazing church and i love the pastor. But i always just kind of felt lost. And from an early age i i kind of. Really didn't know why i felt the way i felt but i realized. Ultimately i was attracted to guys and i was more like i felt more connected to with all the female roles and those kind of things in cartoons and stuff that i would watch. And then about how old were you at this point i would say about 6 or 7 when i really kind of decided that i like guys are like boys. And then at the same time at the age of 7 i actually have my first sexual encounter and i was molested. And it was presented to me as a game and it was kind of just like written off as it's not really a big deal. And i remember like feeling terrible about it and then going to church and like. Constantly asking the lord to forgive me but i feel like it was something that he was never going to forgive me of. As a child. But then at the same time did you tell anyone that was the thing i was. I at the same time. I did not like it so it was just hard to like tell someone because you felt bad about it but then i'll see you were kind of like intrigued by it. And i felt like if i told my parents about it i would get in trouble and and i didn't want that to happen so i kept it for a long time and it wasn't until i was like. I think i was 20 when i realized. What happened to me was not okay and that was molestation. I close people to me that have walked through stuff like that and it's so confusing when you're young because there is that mixture of. Pleasure and curiosity but something's off but you don't know what and you don't want to get in trouble and you don't want to get anyone else in trouble and so you just kind of liberty i think the biggest thing as a child is that. My parents never really have the sex talk with me and because we lived in such a conservative place like my parents were really high in the community. It was just something that my parents avoided my parents are a little bit older than the average parent so my parents had me like 38 and i actually have an older brother but he's 14 years older than i am. So there was like i was kind of like an only child but i wasn't but he was never around cuz he was like 18 when i was four. So i didn't have like a lot of strong male figures in my life you know my dad he did amazing providing for us and my parents are happily married. But he was always at work and so i was just always with my mom. And so i never really emotionally connected with my dad i didn't really have my brother there because he was living his life and you know doing his own thing. And then with those that sexual experience and then just kind of like my feelings and where is that it just kind of like. All began a seed in a planted like this it was the beginning of everything so. To have those hard conversations your children. And kind of like. Help that you know because if you don't if you don't have this conversation with your children and people in the world will so that all the time you know parents will ask us and my daughter is 12/13 do you think she's too young for me to talk about this certain aspect of sexuality or like no she's not like she is actually probably too old like you should have had this a couple years ago because the world especially today is so blunt so in your face with all aspects of sexuality pushing a very clear agenda and worldview on us and every time that you know like if you're not ahead of the game like ahead of the curve and teaching what is true then your children don't even have that lens that filter to go you know when they're hearing stuff from the world or even their own desires temptations to go wait a minute this doesn't align with what i know to be true what i know to be god's design so yes i'm a huge proponent of that all so let me ask you something when you were you know young six seven eight nine ten you're feeling these feelings of attraction towards men. The world back then was in a very different place than it is today today you're openly affirmed i mean you're you're seeing it on disney nickelodeon all of these things pushing you know all of these lifestyles that were very hush-hush back then so is anyone talking about it in your world or how are you processing that internally. I think. Honestly there wasn't a lot there really wasn't a lot you know even in high school and middle school like the kids that like we found out were gay. It was very like taboo again i grew up in the bible belt i grew up in. Like a very close-knit community it's not a small town but it's a suburb of atlanta. And my parents are boomers so they grew up very like. Southern conservative like we don't talk about this we don't talk about that and. And i remember. Really the reason i kept it all in as a child was because i remember having a conversation we were out to dinner. And this was back in the day when american idol was like you could go on and you had to like call in multiple times to vote for your person that you liked and. It was back when adam levine was on there and he was like this kind of alternative he was completely different than all of the other the people on american idol. And he wore skinny jeans and and realistically like looking back i was like man he's really attractive and he's different and he seems really cool and i like his style and. I would just always talk about how much i liked him and i would voted for him all the time and. My mom it's all something. On the news where they did an interview with him and he was like openly gay. And my my dad immediately said well we don't talk about facts and then like that whole conversation got shut down. A lot of people like look at that and i've had people come at me and being like you know i can't believe you're done with like that and they try to like. Create my data as a monster but the reality is is hugh grew up in the deep south he grew up with very conservative parents. His upbringing was traditional but not traditional and he you know the biggest thing about our family was that. We're just taught not to talk about the bad things. It's just not it's not a thing that many people talked about especially being in the south. The only places that i would see it is like on mtv or different like television shows or stuff like that like. Those are the only places that i would like. Oh there's other people that. Like this stuff and i was scared to tell people at school like i never told my friends like it was very like. I just completely kept it to myself and bottled it up. Yeah and were you do you feel like at that time how was your what was your view of. Religion or jesus or even your identity like do you feel like you were trying to find your identity. What was going on. I think that ultimately like. Unfortunately when it's taught in the south and it might be a little bit different now but. You just kind of. Get hot like to be a good old boy and you don't cuss you don't drink you don't smoke and you get to get to heaven do the right thing check the boxes. I went to church i went to church camp i knew and i was around church cuz my brother and his wife. They actually went through like a ministry program they were kind of like the people that i looked up to and i wanted to be a pastor because of that. But the reality was i didn't have a relationship with jesus i really didn't know what that took and i just kind of looked at it as like as long as i'm good as long as i'm a good boy and i go to church then i can do that kind of thing and so i was like i really didn't have. Our relationship with the lord i kind of. As i grew up and into my 10 years i kind of was like like i'm okay with going to hell like i'm going to hell in a handbasket like. I had that kind of like that idea cuz it really wasn't. The the overall idea of going to hell. And just religion in general was just kind of like very muted to me it wasn't. It wasn't clear on those kind of things because i never really dove in deeper than the surface level going to church on sundays and wednesdays and that's really religion if it's just. Religion for religion sake there's no relationship no personal walk with jesus no understanding of him changing us transforming us a surrendering and then finding freedom in that then it is it's just a checklist it's just all outward no n-word and that's so empty that doesn't lead us to any sort of place of hope so it sounds like that's kind of where you were at and at this time as you're getting into your teen years was there a point where you came out publicly and said you know i'm gay or did you kind of secretly kind of keep it inside. I still kept it to myself i did come out to my brother and my sister-in-law because we got into like a huge argument. And i told them that i was going to be a liberal christian. And that i could do that and that was kind of like the beginning of this idea in my head that i could be like getting christian. So it was it was really just like this. I never came out to my parents i was too afraid that. Honestly i would ruin their. They're. Identity in the community and the way people looked at them and. Again my parents both were heavily involved in the community everybody had tons of people know them. And i didn't come out just for that i didn't want to embarrass them or be like you know the time that completely screwed up everything. And so the. Times that i was like with my boyfriend or like with guys i just kept it to a secret and i just kind of like made it very like low-key and i didn't tell you about it. It took me a really long time to even tell one of my best friend i finally ended up telling my best friend and i told her like. She kind of just figured it out because me and my boyfriend were both friends with her and she just kind of like. Put the two together but. I was honestly just too scared i was too scared to tell people and i was too scared to. Talk about it and i think like when i tell that part of my testimony a lot of people were like. Oh you're too scared you didn't come out so then you just went back into your closet like. You're a fake or whatever it is but. The reality is as i was just too scared i was too scared to like ruin my parents. Reputation but at this point like i'm like i don't have that. On me anymore like you know if i really wanted that lifestyle i would go for it but there's nothing in that i saw that has it i don't have anything but it doesn't have anything for me you know it's not going to give me anything so so when did drag. Enter the scene for you. So it was my high school. Time and. At this point i had been with like a couple of guys just kind of like you know fooling around or whatever and. I had. Garden of the lead role in the musical hairspray as the mom. And it was the role that i wanted my to finish my high school senior career in theater as. I was heavily involved with theater and it was like i knew that that was my passion that there was something there for me. And so i landed that role and. After every show. The parents were just like. Oh my gosh i had no idea that i was you like i thought they hired like a middle-aged woman to play that role like i thought that you were real woman or. This is the best for all i've ever seen you in or you did an incredible job like and it was just like all this praise and from middle school into high school. I really never had a solid friend group i had to force my friends honestly like i. It wasn't until like my senior year that i had like two friends that i could actually consider my friends and i can hold clothes. But every everyone else was really just kind of like i stuck myself there i was trying to like be there in the right time the right place. And is honestly sad and pathetic but it was really just because like i never felt. I never felt like i was enough like i never felt like and i just had to constantly perform to the half friends. And so i never liked had a people group to be a part of you know it was really just kind of like. I kind of grew up. Alone and i had friends but they weren't friends. And so it was really just like this. It was just like feeling of like oh my gosh people are accepting me and people love me as this and it was like instant gratification instant validation. And i was like man like this is this was amazing and so. I graduated high school i mean i'm still 18 years old and. I'm kind of like i started dating my ex-boyfriend and i was like okay we're dating and. I'm keeping it low-key and and then i was trying to figure out like i was like. What do i want to do like i'm just kind of you know i was kind of like at a crossroads and i had a job and i got myself an apartment and i was kind of stuff and then i was like. One day i was i actually used to work at this like hookah lounge and i was working at the lounge one day and i was like. I would do karaoke there and i would do tons of like different songs and stuff and people like oh my gosh i just love you and. And i was like man like what if i did drag again like i was like i've never been a drag queen but like what if i did that like what does it even look like to be a drag queen and so. I started watching cuz i never watched it before but i watch like rupaul's drag race and i was like all these interviews all these like makeup tutorials. Cuz i had gotten like an idea of how to do it cuz i've been in theater for 15 years so i was like i basically know how to do makeup and then. Once i watch this videos like i got really good and i was like okay so then. As well it's okay like i'll put it in the back burner so then. I got a call from one of the for a former mom who was at the high school and she was. Hey we're doing this charity event and. They're going to have like a drag competition in every like company that's a part of this charity event has to like bring their own drag queen and we don't have one like would you consider doing it since you played the character in high school and i was like. You know what yeah so it was like that day that night the night before. This character was birthed this on this facade and. I went and i found like i went and bought this really like terrible wig. And i created this 1960s looking housewife character named velma. So i went and i perform. A song from hairspray that was. Like a very like sensual song and. People were just like loving it they loved it they thought i was great. It was like the the the the the character of velma. Who sings in the hairspray i just kind of like took her name and kind of took her look and. She was just like this. Very chic very like suave blonde 1960s character and i just a little bit like fell in love with her so i just spaced my whole dragged off of her. I raised the most money out of all the drag queens that day and it was just like this like moment of like this is where i'm at so then i started buying more wigs and more looks more things i started getting into it a lot more. With that came drug used tons of alcohol. Even you know not just smoking weed but going into cocaine like. It was like once i got into that one thing everything came so i was like really i got this validation and i found this facade i found this character. And i put her on and. Then i just got like instagram gratification and people loved it and i finally found a place where i was accepted i finally found like these warm arms. Debra willing to come and hug me and say like you're enough and you're accepted. I have a question for you i know a lot of our listeners are going to be wondering the same thing. For many of us drag is a very like kind of an unknown it's like we see it and we hear about it but we don't really know like a lot of the behind the scenes i mean like my questions for you are. How does one get into it is it just like exactly what you described you just decide i want to become a drag queen and then you create a character for yourself and you just start getting gigs at nightclubs and i mean how does it all work yeah i mean essentially that's. Very close i mean you just kind of like start. A lot of the stories i've heard is like you just play around as a as a young kid and you just like start. You're getting a vibe for what you want or like you know feeling out and then you start playing around with it and you start playing around with makeup and that kind of thing and. And i'd actually get there was a guy at a at a sister high school that was a full on drag queen. He was ours on. Ok google go to theater events as his drug persona like if people knew him as his draft persona. And so it was like he and then the jack world like you have like jack moms and drag sisters and stuff like that and. And if you want to call it that like he was basically like my drag mom like. There's someone that helps you get into the business and essentially and he was basically already doing it like he was he was 18 too and he was performing in clubs and stuff like that and. The biggest thing is like what people don't know is there are some 40 year old drugs there's tons of them but. A lot of the fresh drag queens are not even like old enough to be in that club. If you they don't ask they are just like oh you want to be in a drive cool and i mean. I know that there's some that i asked but once you get your name around they don't they just want you for your name they don't care like they know you've performed before and you've performed in other clubs so you're just like okay cool like. They just let you come in and that's exactly what i would do that i showed up in. Hair and makeup and. Just put on the costume when i got there and so they never questioned me. So like really it's like. There's tons of underage drags there's tons of. Like me i mean a lot of clubs are 21 and up and these kids some of these kids are 18 19 20 years old and they're not even of age to be in the club yet. Or drink alcohol and older men will buy them drinks like. People don't understand that this is like another route of. Sex trafficking like. Men older men will go into drag clubs and buy a guy a drink and like. Then they forget what's happening and then it's like. I just kind of like. I'm going to try to get you a spot and. He got me a spot at a local club it was kind of like a small like little. Janky club. I just did a performance and it made me feel really good i really love me and then. After that it was. I would just like show up at random bars with my drive persona on i did like a few performances here and there are different like bars and theaters and stuff but. That's really like the biggest way people get into it they get really good at home. And then they just kind of like start showing up places start trying to get connected with the drags it's super easy to get into the community so once you get in the community you make friends. Gigs and stuff come coming your way pretty easily. Yeah it kind of sounds similar to like an artist like a musician small and like playing here and there and you get connected and then you get bigger gigs and you build a name for yourself and following. So you mentioned there are sister drag queens daughter drag queens or mom drag queens you mentioned are there lots of types so essentially it's just like. They create a family and that's the biggest thing is like. That's why a lot of people the lgbtq community is so accepting. Because. And that's another thing like you if your mom if your dad's mom you can drive mom was like a very popular drag queen you what you did was you inherited her last name so. Like the rest of my name came from my drag mom. And so you have this like long list of drag queens that passed out that the name throughout the entire life. Wow that's so interesting like this family dentistry your sisters are like the other girls or the other drag queens that are. So then you have like. Oh you know you have your aunts and you have all that kind of stuff it's just like this whole like it's a whole thing but. They created like a family dynamic and i mean it's super popular that's kind of like how you really get into it so you're taking on the first name of your dragon mom or is there a last name yeah so like. There's a popular drag queen. I've been out of. Trixie mattel she's super popular. He is he is on nickelodeon he said he was on blue's clues i believe like all kinds of stuff. And then anyone that he takes on under him takes on. That motel like the last name essentially some people just kind of create their own drag name that she's not to do that but a lot of people in the community that was part of. Would just be like. It would be you would take on. The middle name was von because that was like the. The dragon mom's middle name and then i just kind of created my own last name so i just picked up that middle name so there is this entire sense like you said this sense of community a family of belonging so for someone who is searching trying to find that place of acceptance that place a belonging it sounds very appealing. Oh yeah i mean it's like an open community people are like. Hey comma be a part of this you know like it's actually something that people feel comfortable with they feel like they can be a part of and. It gives people that. Sense of belonging it and that's why the biggest thing is i feel like that's where the church goes wrong is. They get so caught up in the sand and they're like oh i don't want to like. I don't want to touch you your team did or that kind of thing they make it to get uncomfortable but i'm like the lgbtq community is like hey we're here we're just come on in right. So there's that aspect of appeal what else is appealing from your perspective and having lived in that world for grown men. To dress as very sexualized grown women. Any appeal to to dress like that and then the appeal for people to watch it for entertainment. It's kind of comical to me but i'm also just got like what i actually saw another drag queen and do an interview on this. Drag queens in general are basic strippers. Perform an adult clubs adult bars. We have all of these people wanting them to. All these drag queens all of a sudden to be a part of their community and being a part of like. They're. Kids lies in their television and all this kind of stuff and. I think the only. The other appealing part of it is like of course their instagram gratification the acceptance and stuff but it's also like a moment to take like off your hat. And i no longer having to be this person and i get to be this completely different person that doesn't have any issues. And i don't have to worry about all my problems i don't have to worry about this that and the other. I said that gives it a little bit more of like a it's a facade it's this like. It's a fake identity that you get to take on for an hour or two. That you get to just take a step back and be this person. But it's at the same time it's like. So many people get caught. In the facade that it just becomes them. Your voice begins to change the way they walk the way they act begins to mold into this other person. And if they're no longer. This person that they were created to be there now this new facade. Lgbtq community is. I i tell them be very wary about. I'm using pronouns using their names that they want you know using these these false identities because what you're doing is your partnering. With this demonic identity that has been created and now you're enforcing it. And a lot of people come out of me like oh well that's super disrespectful that you wouldn't use their you're never going to reach them that way you're never going to minister to them that way but i'm like. Is can i just get harder for you and for them if you continue to like valid. This demonic false identity that they created for themselves. And i mean it's like it's like appealing but it's also very like it's very very very very very very. Idea of like something so beautiful it's kind of like the prodigal son. Had this idea of what his life was going to be like without his father and when he actually got there. And like live the life it was like it wasn't everything it was cracked up to be. But they just they continuously stay in that drag persona so they don't have to worry about all the other issues. Character life feel. That portion where it's like. I don't have to be this person anymore it's like it's a lot more texting. And you were receiving affirmation acceptance but then you were still blake i mean you still had your life as a guy right and how did you feel when you were just. I actually. I mean i didn't. I just kind of like live life i was just kind of like i didn't like. I was very insecure about myself and that kind of thing and honestly that's really where. The only reason i stopped drag i wasn't even saved it was just like i stopped drag because. I got tired of people accepting her and not me like i was like why do i have to be this whole other person for people to love me and accept me. Like why do i have to like. Put on this whole circus for you to accept me like i just i feel like. I'm not a terrible person i'm not a hard person to like and i just don't understand why. I've never really had friends i don't understand why i can't just like really. Find people that like accept me for who i am like it's just mind-boggling like i was. I felt so alone and so. It was like. The reality is hit me when i was blake because it was just like. I enjoyed it. But then i start getting tired of it because i was like. No like i hate that i hate having to be somebody else like that's so dumb like. It was fun every once in a while but to do it all the time and to only get affirmation when i was blake was just exhausting or when i was exhausting and so i was just like. I was ready to like give it up and i was searching for something else and that's really like. The why the whole transition happened was because i was like what is going on with my life like. I just kind of like hit a breaking point and i was i got tired of. How to put on heels having to put on makeup having to put on a bodysuit having to put on all these these wigs and. Create a whole nother persona just to. Delight. Wow yeah it was empty i mean at the end of it it sounds like you weren't the satisfaction wasn't lasting it wasn't carrying over truly into every part of your life so it's at this point in time. Things are starting to change how old are you at this point at this point i. It was the at the end i was probably. In the full drive community i guess. Really about. 6 to 8 months. I know tons of drag queens that have been doing it for 20 years you know like. And it was a really like i was basically at a place where like my career could it was really about to start taking off. Atlantic community and that kind of thing and. I want people to come find me but. I just. I was kind of like it. It was just like i was in a crossroads like i was just kind of like where am i at what am i doing. And i was kind of like wanting to get out of that but at the same time like i was just kind of like. What else is there out there for me you know like i have a lot of questions. So what happened next i mean you have a lot of questions you're struggling are you talking about god at this point are you like. No i don't want anything to do with him so i actually. I really was just kind of like. I knew god was in the background the whole time and i was like okay maybe i need to go to. A christian college and i can like what i was really looking for out of god cuz i had this like idea of what i wanted from god. It was just got on your own terms at this point. I wanted stability and i wanted. Because like my drug use was out of hand i even got to a point where i almost overdose on cocaine. And i got super scared you know i i watched one of my friends almost overdose and. Figure out plan b what is plan b lord like i was okay cuz. Overdose. I'll stop doing drugs. That was my agreement. And so. I was trying to figure out a place where i could go to help me like just kind of like get my mind off drug issues and. Drinking all the time and get rid of the jack persona i didn't want people to know me as i drive persona. But i still wanted to keep my homosexuality i wanted to still do guys all that kind of stuff. And so i had actually auditioned and gotten a job at a. Theme park in orlando and. I it was my dream job and i was super excited about it i was like. I grew up on these movies and this company and that kind of thing and so i was like. I am ready and it was i've been casted and as a character from one of my favorite. Movies from this company so i was like okay i'm done like i'm ready like. Let's go do this this is my way out i can go and get into college in central florida and i just kind of like be a christian but also like have my gay life and i don't have to worry about the drug thing anymore i don't have to worry about drugs or alcohol like i can just like start over. And i was getting ready to move to orlando. Was in about to like. I was looking at apartments i was looking at different things and. They were supposed to be sending my training packets and all that kind of stuff to get me started. My mom was like well what if you go to the ramp this this ministry school in hamilton alabama and i was like. Part of the plan. And i had a cousin that was going to the ministry school at the time and so i was like. We just go. You start in august go until november if you hate it then i'll help you move to orlando and we'll get everything and i was like. I don't like i just got i landed this job like i want to move to orlando and she was like just go and i was like. Okay so like i am at this point have any idea of your. My parents like my family knew that like some things were off about me because i was like. My drug use came to light with my brother and sister-in-law and they kind of like saw. Like different pieces of it and so they confronted me about it and i don't think my parents they told my parents about it but. They knew that i was it was super unhealthy and inconsistent. I was like staying up all night long and then sleeping all day long and. And like coming home high or coming home with red eyes or like and it was just like i was out of it all the time and so they knew something was up that's funny so i mean my mom was kind of like i don't know what's going on with blake but he needs to he needs to do something. And everybody was really excited me for me to move to orlando but then when i started talking about possibly going to a christian school. Then my mom was like we'll go to the ramp and i was like. So i ended up applying anyway i applied and then i came to this part of the application where i told me to tell my test. I'm not about to tell all these people in alabama that i struggle with homosexuality right back or at the time like i'm not about to tell them all that i'm gay. And so. I just told him like i used to do drugs and i was a bad kid now i'm not and i love jesus and i just kind of like bs the whole application. Somehow i got accepted and so the lady it was literally two weeks before school started and the lady who was in charge of admissions like called me i was like okay we got to get all the stuff in and immediately and like you know all this kind of stuff and i was. How did i even get accepted but i was kind of. As the time started coming like i kind of start getting excited cuz i was like maybe this is a new start maybe this is a fresh start and then. You know that i can you get my crap together and then you know i'll find a guy and we can get married and we can be christian. I was just kind of like. I started becoming hopeful for like getting a stable life. And so then. Go to hamilton alabama for orientation i had actually already. I committed to one last drag show for a local theater. And so i had that right after my orientation. Go to orientation and i was like. The day before orientation we showed up a day early we went to there just like normal wednesday night service. And that kind of thing. We went to wednesday night service and. Crazy and. I remember the worst leaders she was going off and everybody was in the altar which was very confusing to me because. Why are we going out there like that's weird and so we go we get up to the altar. A worship starts and everybody is just like jumping. Pulling your arms everywhere like worshiping jesus just completely freely. And i was like i don't know what to do but clap you know i just have like really confused. I was working and i was dancing and i was jumping and i started like feeling. I felt joy i felt like i felt happiness i started feeling good and i was like this is crazy like what is this. And the worst bleeder in the middle of this really hype song she right before she went into the bridge she was like. I just i feel like this so strongly from the lord that. There are people in this room that are coming to the school. And your yes to god has literally set you up for a destiny that you had no idea was coming. Like literally your yes. If you could just like pull back the curtain and take a peek of what god have for you you would be in awe with what your yes it means today. And so she's like when i go into this bridge when i'm when you move your body when you move your feet when you open your mouth the darkness has to flee i want you to sing that with everything you have dance that with everything you have and just like release that i just let it go i just like i went fully and i went full in for the lord. And then we hit a slow song and it was just like. Everything slow down it was like i almost felt like i was in this slow motion love story movie like that moment where like everything slows down and like the two characters just meet and fall in love like that's how i felt like i had experienced this tangible presence of jesus. That i had never experienced before like it literally felt like jesus walked into the room and was just there like i could it's like when you're in a room by yourself and then you feel someone watching you or something it's not like that feeling is the same thing but it was just like. I just felt like. There was another person in the room that was like there for me and it was just like. It was just like overwhelming feeling i was just like i was just like completely broke. I'm going to give you everything and i laid down the drugs i laid down the alcohol and all that stuff but. Make a note of surrender and repentance it sounds like. Yeah but the one thing that i took away from that altar was i was still holding on to my my sexual orientation with guys like i still. It was not when the altar moment. I don't want you. I want to surrender but not everything. I was there in alabama trying to prove all these like all these random people all these mystery people that you could be getting christian and i finally was like oh i've got a hold of god and i feel i feel him. And so then like over the course of this year i was in ministry school. I had some really tough meetings i had really tough moments with the lord where. I don't want to do this anymore and then i'll be honest like. I would get on my hookup apps and i would hook up a guys every once in a while when i felt like i felt like i just didn't have it or i wasn't. Being accepted or whatever it was. I'm looking for. The idea of being. Held by a guy and just being with him like i mean of course it's just like the idea of being with your husband like you want to be next to him sometimes and just like lay on him and like feel him so it's the same thing like. Let's hang out and sit on the couch together. As i was hooking up with guys and doing stuff like that but throughout the entire year like the lord kept encountering me in different ways and i remember i started getting my. Prayer life together and i started like trying to like pray and read the word everyday and. I wasn't too successful but when i did it like it really did something for me and. I was reading one day. And i came across the scripture in matthew and it says. There will be a day where men will come to me and say lord lord we prophesied your name we cast out demons in your name. We did everything for you and he was like he's going to say get away from me you workers of iniquity i never knew you you never knew my name. And i like it was like this like. Moment with the lord that i was like maybe i've been doing this whole thing this whole christian thing without knowing the lord like i've been playing the part i've been doing all this stuff but i haven't been doing it with god i haven't been doing it with jesus. And it was like a sphere of the lord moment where i was like i did it was like i got scared but i was like it was a whole thing like i was like. I've been doing this all wrong. And it was like this moment i was like okay lord like. I'm going to give up everything. I'm going to give up everything i'm going to give up the guys i'm going to give up absolutely everything. If i hate it i'm going to go back. It was just trying season like when i gave up like i was just like. It was like constantly remembering to renew your mind everyday like pick up your cross everyday. Jesus says you have to be born again like. I've been there i've been and it wasn't ever like this moment of like where pastors got in a room and they brainwashed me it wasn't anybody else's decision like it was literally me there was no like conversion therapy. Like i decided to try this out and i just found that it was so much more there was so much more gratification in the kingdom of god than the homosexual community could ever bring me. And it was like. People try to argue with me all the time and i hate getting an arguments because it's not it's for me it's not worth it but it's like. The reality is is like jesus is so much better i i don't have anxiety i don't have depression i don't have suicide i don't have like i don't have to rely on drugs to make me feel any type of way whether they're prescribed or or street drugs like. I just literally have to go to jesus this one place is one thing and i get everything i need. And it's not like this religious mumbo-jumbo like it's like a genuine like tangible feeling that you can have a piece. I mean there's a there was a time i can talk about in my book like it wasn't an easy process and it's not the biggest thing to tell people i wrote in my book it's it's this moment that i have the lord and it was like in prayer and. I've already told you i decided i don't want to be gay so why do i still have these. And the lord said. It's not a gay to straight transition it's up from broken to whole transition. And that like wrecked me because it was like the lord's not going to take. Like my lust for a man and take it away and give me lust for a woman like. He's not going to take one sin pattern away to give you a new one like if that's what you're waiting on it's not going to happen bro like it's not it's like. I remember the reason why me and my wife even started dating was because we were. We are on our way home. From work cuz we worked in mississippi even though we lived in alabama. We were on our way home from work we had about a 45-minute drive and i was like let's just pray so we turn on worship music to start praying. And i was like praying i just like looked over at her and i was like dude i could do this with her forever. And then immediately i was like. Do i like a girl right now. Is this for real. And i was just kind of like. It was like the lord. It was like he gave me this desire for a niece and not just sexually but i just i fell in love with her and i fell in love with who she is in the lord and what god has on her life i fell in love we were literally i told teenagers all the time because i used to be a youth pastor. Find someone that is running as just as fast as you are. Towards god and when it real like when you realize that. It just makes sense to run together because you're going the same direction you're running at the same speed. So it was just like when we got together like it was like a moment like. And i was honestly nervous like i was nervous i had all of these like preconceived ideas of what marriage is going to be like all this kind of stuff even before me and it just wouldn't mean any sort of friends like i would tell her like i was like. I don't know like how i can never tell a girl like i slept with another dude like how can a woman be okay with her husband have slept with another guy like that's not like manly that's not cool like. Justice waiting on me because i was like my wife's never going to be able to look at me like a man you know like. And my wife and i we had talked about everything when we were friends we had literally like shared it all there was no secrets there was nothing that we hadn't told each other. And so it was like. She was like i like you and i want to date you i was just kind of like. She knows everything about me and she like wants this and immediately like it was like over the course of our marriage like the lord really showed me like. That's how his love is for me. Like he looked at me he saw everything i had done he saw everything every time i messed up every time i went back on my word with the lord every time i made you know i i cursed the lord like every time i did that. And he was like. I know all of that but i love you and it just like it broke me because it's a different type of love it's not based on sexual anything sexual it's not based on just like oh she's a nice personality like and we clicked together we vibe together it's like. It's a love that was formed and bonded that is like no other. And honestly like. I wouldn't be where i'm at today without my wife because we are each other's like rocks and. We we have a beautiful one year old about to be 2 year old daughter we actually just found out that we were pregnant so we're expecting another one and thank you and it's just honestly that the lord is just blown me away like. Going on this journey when you say yes like there is so much for that god can do with a yes. And the journey the my journey was not was not easy. It took me a lot of finding the different components and even some of the stuff i talked about today like. I didn't even go into great detail of other things that i had to do to really like push myself out. But the biggest thing too is just connecting with other christians like if you're a guy struggling with homosexuality i had to connect with the pastor connect with other dudes that were like. I'm willing to lie bond with you and get through this like. Cuz that's another thing is like. I was so focused on being a drag queen like everything i did was female like i walked like a girl i worshiped like a girl i am i honestly. My voice is dropped like two octaves like i never took like any kind of. Hormones or anything like that but like i just kind of like when you spiritually get involved with something it affects the physical. And so like my voice used to be higher and i i literally the way i dress was super feminine like everything the way i walked with superman. And the lord began to change those things in me and then begin to change my desires for clothes and begin to change my desires for the way i look at things and it's like. The lord takes care of everything you just have to say yes. Like it's i like bonding with like my you know my my friends that are guys and then even like a couple of pastors that were in the ministry at the time. I don't care what you're struggling with or what you're going through like i want to lock arms and arm with you and let's get through this let's get through the mud like let's really like do this. That's why i need my book from mascara to manhood because it's not like. Being gay makes you less of a man it's like i i was so caught up in the mascara that i am when i transitioned i learned what it means to be a man of god. And in transitioning into my manhood as god has called me to be. And so i mean. Better hard process i'm not going to if you know it's better but it's only been worth it the things that the lord is taking me through it's been rough but it's also molded me and shaped me into the person that i am now. Blake we are almost out of time here i feel like i could talk to you for another hour but for the sake of your schedule i will let you go soon but i have a few more questions something interesting i want to circle back on in your story when you were talking about coming to that point. Of realizing you couldn't fully surrender and walk a repentant life before the lord and have jesus 100% and hold on to your homosexuality at the same time. And something that is very common you see it i see it i get emails from women who are saying you know god you know i'm a woman i'm attracted to women god made me this way. If he's a loving god he wouldn't try to change me you know and then there are churches and and religious movements affirming this kind of thinking that is very unbiblical. But what would you say to that person who was like but is jesus better or why can't i have my homosexual life and jesus at the same time like what's the problem and i'll give you like the quick and easy answer but. The bible is very clear about that there are literally. Six scriptures that talk about homosexuality in the bible. And if people a lot of people don't know this but there's like. Not once in the bible does it say yes go do. But if you really satanic bible there is literally. Like tons of scriptures about yes homose. Something that opposes god. Like be okay with god. I think the thing is is like god calls us to deny ourselves. Desires what we want what. What we feel like we deserve and. That's why i really got to a place where i was like. I'm going to give everything up and then see where we're at like i'm going to give everything up and then give you a try. Adding into grow faster i begin to like experience god and completely new ways and. Honestly i think people have that. The church is done a terrible job there's tons of ministers like i said earlier like people. People are scared to talk about the subject and then if they are not then they're like it's okay like they just kind of brush over it but then like they welcome all these people and then they kind of validate and we have a church here in san antonio that literally on saturdays turn their altar into a drag show. And so we have churches validating them there we have churches in. And i'm gay pride parades we have churches like. What is a hebrew word that literally means in hebrew for a man to penetrate another man and so like even if you're going to break down the hebrew like let's go all the way back. It's still like homosexual. Because that was more of what. The term was now being used for so it's like. You can't tell me that it's been lost in translation like i bought like i saw a tick tock where this girl bought a. A bible from like the early forties and she was like see like homosexuality is not even in this book but the hebrew words are that actually mean. For a man to penetrate another man so it's the same thing. And so honestly like i would encourage people like. Really dive into the bible dive into god because the reality is is what you're going to find is that. The bible the bible is very clear about homosexuality and what what god says about it and. Inlet in romans my favorite scriptures about homosexuality. Romans 1. It talks about. And gives them over to a carnal evil mindset and so then they start spreading rumors about each other men trade normal sexual like. Identities for like abnormal sexualities homosexuality and women trade their their sexual things for sex with women. People would literally like. You would have sex with the same gender to worship the god baal. Along with. Baby sacrifices and all kinds of those in those crazy things like literally people would go into arenas and watch people have sex. And which is modern-day porn like it's like. God so why would it be okay with our god why would it be okay. In zephaniah says that god will destroy all. He is a jealous god and he will destroy all of their idols and what i found is people that have the mindset of created themselves as an idol and they have this mindset that i want what i want and god wants what i want for. Salt lake and closing and that was all so good thank you by the way for being so bold and transparent and unafraid you know when we are walking in truth and when we are fully surrendered and we're living for the glory of god and we're living to build his kingdom and not our own and we've traded our fleshly desires for for his desires you know setting our minds and hearts on things that are above. There is no there's no fear and shame in that and that forgiveness and that redemption and there's a boldness that comes with it and we see that in the lives of so many believers throughout scripture and i see that in you and i'm so encouraged that you are unafraid you're unashamed of the gospel you're unashamed of the truth and you are clearly wanting to shout out from the mountain tops to transforming work of christ and what it is to be redeemed to become a child of god and how that is where true satisfaction is found not in what our flesh desires not and what we long for not in the world has to offer or tells us is where we're going to find our identity but in christ and it's worth giving up everything else for him because that's where life is and so i'm so grateful for you and for your bold at testimony i know everyone listening he's probably feeling the same but for the woman right now just in closing i would love for you to offer a word of encouragement for her specifically and i want to. Before i read you know the question i want to just say that often times as believers and especially believers who grew up in church you know that was me very you know in a christian family. Never really struggled with super huge you know quote on quote sexual sins but. Definitely in my heart lost you struggle with masturbation for a while just you know it's thin it's in you know in the same way but i think there can be this tendency in the church to have this mindset of oh there are those sexually broken people you know out there that we need 11 minutes or two and then there's you know us in the church we are sexually you know whole people but when we look in scripture we see that we are all broken we're all sinners at the foot of the cross we all need christ the same we're all sexually broken in need of restoration and so that's that's huge for us to recognize that there aren't pure people but all of us seeking and pursuing the holiness and righteousness of christ and only through him can we even be closed in any sort of righteousness or wholeness and so that's where we all are we all need christ but for the woman right now who specifically struggling with same-sex attraction with her gender identity with questioning god's design for her biblically hearing these messages from culture and from. Different churches saying it's okay if we affirm who you are who you feel you are for that woman right now what word of encouragement could you leave her with as she's wrestling but maybe wanting to fight this fight and follow the lord think the biggest thing for that woman right now is. Again like. The change is not going to happen overnight but at the same time like it's going to take you having a daily encounter with the lord. You know constantly not just like. Systematically or you know making it a part of your daily thing where you just read the word and listen to worship music and kind of make it mechanical but really like having a relationship with the father get into your word worship do whatever it takes to really. Feel the presence of the lord and then as well as find some women of god that aren't afraid to like a link arms with you just like i did with. It was a completely different they were able to just kind of like teach me how to be a guy and how to like you know do those things and the same thing is just like surround yourself with bold women that are not going to be afraid to call you out and like. It's important. And second i mean i guess like lastly like just remember that. It does happen over time and i am i love my wife and i'm obsessed with her but. The biggest thing is if you're waiting on him to make you straight then it's it's not going to be a part of the process so you have to really just deny yourself and run after wholeness and run after him and everything else follows along. Waiting on the physical to happen but the. And so i think this those are some important things to remember like thank you so much again for sharing your testimony for coming on for just in your testimony providing so much hope i think for women who are listening who have a friend who have a sister who knows someone going. Can god really change our hearts you know is there hope there is and there is power in the gospel and we see it in your life and we see it in all of our hearts you know we are all lost and broken without him but with him there is so there's lights there is truth there is freedom there is relationship that sense of belonging that you described earlier that's found in christ and then he's giving us a family the family of god to walk that out with so i love your encouragement for women to find a mentor essentially we're on that here at girl to find we're always telling women get a mentor get a godly mentor find a woman who can walk with you galatians 6 tells us you know bear one another's burdens we're not meant to live this life and isolation on an island but within community sharpening one another encouraging one another really living out the one another that we see in scripture so thank you so much guys you can find his book from mascara to manhood grab a coffee to read his full story and then again sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart are book from here at girl define takes a deep dive into all things sexuality god's design for gender struggling secret struggles things we never told anyone how do we find freedom you guys know we take a deep dive so be sure to grab a copy at girl to find and like thank you so much again. Yes thank you it was an honor and a privilege thank you for joining me for this episode of the girl to find show today i really hope you found it encouraging and hope filled as you saw the transforming work and power of jesus and the gospel in blake's life and as i said earlier in my conversation with blake you know every single one of us wrestles with brokenness with sin with different aspects of our sexuality not functioning according to god's original design because of the way that sin has distorted our longings and desires every single one of us wrestles with sexual broken nests and that's exactly why bethany and i co-authored our book sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart just discovering the beauty and freedom of god to find sexuality because we wrestled with our own sexual broken nest and we've talked to so many women who feel like they're alone they're the only one struggling with this particular sexual sin they feel too ashamed to come out and tell anyone about it and so they keep it to themselves they keep it silent in the dark they feel like they're on an island like they're alone struggling. I'm like no one can help them because they're too afraid to share and talk about it and i remember feeling that exact same way which is why we wanted to write this book because it's a book encouraging women to find freedom through the power of the gospel by bringing sin into the light allowing christian community to come around us and help us in our struggles and i specifically share in one of our chapters on porn masturbation and erotica my struggle with masturbation i did an entire episode on this and our podcast you can just search masturbation and the christian woman and you'll find that episode but i share in our book my journey my struggle of for years keeping it silent because i was too afraid to ashamed to tell anyone. But you know what it was not until i confessed my sin and brought it into the light and asked for help and asked for prayer that i found. My journey toward freedom that i got on a path of walking in the light and that is what ultimately helped to set me free from this thing that i've been struggling with for years so i just want to encourage you whatever your struggle is if it same-sex attraction if it's struggling with your gender identity if it's struggling with lust in your heart if it's addiction to porn masturbation stuck in an addiction of reading erotic novels and you just can't seem to put them down sexting you're doing things on the internet that you know you shouldn't do or behind closed doors when you think no one's looking god sees and he has so much more for our sexuality than the broken miss that we experience in our sin. Cancel i encourage you to grab a copy of sex period and the longings of a girl's heart it is a deep dive into god to find sexuality no matter where you're coming from what your background is i know you will find so much hope in freedom as you discover god's good design and how to break free from sin in your own life. If you feel like this would be a great resource for a friend someone you know please pass this along we address the hot button topics of the lgbtq stuff we talked about same-sex attraction gender lies of our world of our culture the truth from god's word about these really crucial areas so please grab a copy i don't care where you get it get it from the library get it free get it from a used bookstore if you want to get it from our bookstore girl to find.com you can it's on amazon pretty much forever books are sold but i just want you to get this book in your hands and read it or listen to it. Because i truly believe it will be life-changing for you from this day forward your life will be radically changed as you walk in freedom. From sexual sin and struggle. I love you guys if you appreciate this episode if you appreciate us talking about these really controversial topics and bringing god's truth into them. Please give us a five-star rating on spotify on apple it really does help other people find the show and it really encourages us you know we get a lot of people who don't like what we're doing what we're talking about and so they come over and droves leaving us one star ratings which does affect things and so if you appreciate this would you take 30 seconds to leave a five-star rating to help boost those ratings we find it so encouraging to read your comments and again it does help other people find the show. Love you guys so much and i can't wait to chat with you all in the next episode come hang out with us over on instagram at girl defined and that's where we chat more. If you have questions dms we're really present on instagram and we love to interact with you guys okay love you guys. 