Today on the girl to find show i have a huge treat in store for you because we are tackling a topic that i have been wanting to cover for so many years here on the girl to find show that we just weren't able to because i couldn't find the right gas i couldn't find the right person y'all i have found her candace waters is amazing and we are digging into all things birth control family planning talking about why we as women shouldn't even have babies she debunks so many of the myths that so many of us as modern christian women by into why we delay having kids cuz we want to build our careers that have family later or we don't want to mess up our figure or we don't think we have the finances for it she unpacks facts and just compelling inspirational research that she has from writing her book which is called start your family inspiration for having babies and it is such a compelling conversation this is only part one though because another huge part of this conversation is the specific topic of hormonal birth control and so part 1 in this conversation with candice we're going to build a foundation understand god's incredible design for family how we as modern women have been lied to to basically think that everything else should come first before having babies that babies are some sort of accessory that we can control everything that one day when we're finally ready things will happen just the way we want and why that often isn't the case for so many women and then next week i'm going to die specifically in part two. Into the topic of hormonal birth control the pill because something else that has been so widely accepted is the pill and this doctor is going to come on and bring some expert wisdom in talking all about our bodies as women are cycle or fertility how things work and how the hormonal birth control pill disrupts everything she isn't for it and the things that she shares are mind-blowing so you are going to want to stick around whether you're married or single this conversation is for you because it has to do with us as women it is compelling is it it is inspiring it is honestly mind-blowing i have so many times during these two episode i just found myself like wanting to jot down notes wanting to remember we listen to things because of how good it is this is the kind of conversations that you were going to want to share with every friend that you have with every single christian sister because everyone needs to hear this and i hope that you will grab a copy of candice's book start your family inspiration for having babies and also if you haven't read our book girl defined god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity these two books go hand in hand because they're all about god's design for womanhood and so i'm telling you if you just read those two books alone over this next year your life and your perspective on god's design your growth would be. Huge you would not. Regret it but let's dive into part one and then come back next week and join me for part 2 as we talk all about god's design for family babies children birth control let's go there. Hey sisterhood it is kristen here and i have been wanting to have this conversation i cannot tell you for how long i've been wanting to talk about these huge topics of birth control family planning. When do have babies why do have babies and this is not just a conversation i'm thinking of for like all of our young married women although do not leave this is a conversation for every woman because we're women were made in god's image of a huge part of our female design is procreation like even the ability to have babies and if you're like oh yeah i'm young i'm not even thinking about that. I've been introduced in just a second is going to share some things that are going to get you thinking and maybe even inspired and planning and thinking of your future in a way that you never have before and so joining me today is an old friend and the author of an amazing and provocative book called start your family inspiration for having babies. Candice waters welcome to the girl to find show. Tell us all just right off the bat. Why are you and your husband decided to write this book. About babies about starting your family like what is fired you guys. We wanted to write this book because we needed this book when we were newly married. We thought we would take the typical 5 years to get to know each other that we would explore our new city together that we both have high-powered jobs and save up a lot of money and buy our first home and maybe do a little travel. Add about 6 months into our newlywed. And she asked me to rain in a wok. So when are you going to have babies and i told her our big plan and she said oh well how old are you and i said. One i'm 27 why and she said. Why do you think you'll still or how do you know you'll still be fertile when you decide that you're ready to have kids. I'm not that is such a like a personal direct question were you guys kind of taken like a back like wait what i was taking a bath for like 10 seconds and then i thought. Because i grew up in a traditional christian home with lots of siblings and so did my husband steve both sets of parents still married. And we had a very worldly understanding of what the early married years should look like and especially about having babies and if we needed help to get going on the path to family we figured we're probably not alone they're probably other people who need help. Wow but what happened next i'm so curious like you have this conversation she's telling you like well are you sure you're going to even be able to you're going to be too old and like what was your husband thinking what happened next between you guys we were walking on a path in colorado and mary and i were walking ahead of steven hubert and. We had conversations about starting our family and he wasn't ready as ready as i was and i think ladies we just have a biological built-in. And so we had talked about it but he wasn't ready to pull the trigger so to speak. And. Hugh and mary brought the conversation up again once we got back from our walk when all four of us were together and steve tells the story in the book of how he put up his best defense and his rationale reasons why it wasn't responsible and we didn't have enough money in the bank and all the things that we all hear. And she just looks straight out of him and said steve. Budget for everything but babies babies are well. And i would say within about 3 weeks. I have talking and praying the lord. And i think that that is better than average i think a lot of young women are surprised to find out how long it takes to conceive we have this illusion of control because we live less control culture and so we think as soon as i go off the pill or soon as i stop doing whatever we've been doing to prevent pregnancy. The the switch will flip and suddenly will be able to have babies and it just doesn't always work out that way. So within 6 months we conceived and by god's grace that first pregnancy went full-term and we had a healthy baby. Even 6 months so it felt like a really long time. Oh man so i don't know if you know much about my background with and fertility and recurrent miscarriage but i have like the opposite story and that my husband and i got married we were i was 24 he was 23 and we were open to having kids right away we weren't like we're not going to do birth control we're not going to we're just going to let god decide you know and i remember us having this conversation about like oh you know we we kind of hope god gives us a little bit of time so that we can just enjoy these early years of marriage build this foundation kind of like this mindset like you know. Down the road but we're just going to let god choose and it was it's so like ironic looking back now 11 years later and looking back on our story because at the time we thought we were so surrendered like lord we are open to your plan you know whatever you have for us you know will trust you and little did we know that god was going to bring about a journey that was the exact opposite you know we thought he was going to open the floodgates and give us more kids than we can handle. Infertility and longing for children and experiencing not having something like you said the control i wasn't on the birth control pill but i was on the mindset of like oh if i just trust god you know he will give me everything in his timing but in my mind the timing was my timeline right i'm like exactly the right time and this right age they're all going to be perfectly space and we're going to have the exact number that we want that we decide on and so a little bit of the opposite of what you're saying with the birth control but still the same heart of i can control this and so lacking that heart of surrender and really trusting god pursuing him wholeheartedly in the area of children so thank god you know his grace he's so sweet his two boys that are sister had knows about through adoption and that's just been an amazing journey that i never saw coming. But. I think what you're saying is so true. The way that so many young women and her marriage and they're like okay yeah yeah maybe kids at some point down the road maybe like i don't know probably you know cuz most christians at least the women i talk to. They have a pro-life a pro baby family mindset but it's kind of like down the road sometime and i don't really know when and i don't really know why or how or how many but we'll talk about that maybe in 4 to 5 years so where and i don't feel like it's always been that way and i know you talk about this in your book like what has changed to where women now get married and kids are on the back burner for a long time. And suddenly sex and procreation having sex and having babies. Was separated. And so we. We stopped. Assuming that babies were part of marriage and we became capable to our detriment of separating the goods of babies from marriage it's one of the blessings it's one of the reasons god gave us marriage is to be fruitful and multiply suddenly we had a technological way to say no you know we want the sex and we want the marriage but we don't want the babies or at least not yet. Biblical understanding. It's not that everybody in the past had a biblical understanding it's just that the science and technology and and drug stores didn't have things that made it possible to move away from a biblical understanding so you just had these built-in supports and people thought we're going to get married and we know that babies are part of that we're probably going to have kids and that was a good thing. And babies are a common grace gift from god they're one of the primary ways that he sanctifies us. And. And i don't think there's a lot of conversations among young women to say. You don't realize what you're saying no to you think you're saying yes to freedom and yes to fun and yes to entertainment and yes to more money and all of these things. But those things are so much less than the eternal. Blessing and sanctification and i mean there's just such a wealth of joy that comes with the bone wearing work of being a mom right now it's not easy choice at all and it is some of the hardest work you could ever do but it's it's such worthy work. Is there anything you can tell us about the history of the pill. Kind of like when it came into play where it came from or is that out of your soul. And so common today that i don't even think. Women now like modern women you know. Known. Well it's it's everywhere in the culture assumed but it's also assumed by almost every obgyn ask any young woman who's going to the doctor before she gets married. The doctor will just as a matter of course they so what's your birth control going to be here i'll write you a script for the pill there's kind of this built-in assumption and christian obgyns are not in a you know they are not immune to this way of thinking. The assumption is we're going to. Go right under the pill and just will get to the baby thing when we get there. And they're so little talked about among. Married. During the premarital counseling with a lot of pastors it's just not top of mine for a lot of people i'm surprised how many young couples get married without having a conversation yeah how many kids they want her if they want children or what will they do if they can't have children or what if they. So focused on superficial things like the dress and the ceremony and the cake and the excitement and the the thrill and. But they are not the long-term meat and potatoes of what married life is yeah i know so many women amazing women in my church and friends and just women who are so ambitious they're like on fire for the lord and. Passionate and just like go get her kind of women and i'm just thinking of a few specific situations and i love these girls to death but you know we've had some conversations about family and babies and i've seen you know kind of this recurring pattern of these women who are super intentional in a lot of other areas of their life. Oh you know i don't know maybe and it's just kind of like wow there's a disconnect to where we're so intentional and planning and preparing and growing and learning in so many other areas of our lives as christian women but then the area of family and babies and thinking of this from a biblical lens even growing at our understanding seems to be. Completely missing. And a lot of circumstances so for like the christian woman. What what's going on in our culture and in our churches where women are like it's not even a thought. It's not even a thought we're just absorbing so much of the way of the world's thinking. On having babies and and you're right it's not and i think it's not just in the having babies it's also in the getting married there's a lot of. Kind of backing your way into whatever happens hoping for the best trusting the lord. But not a ton of intentionality and maybe in the christian world it's because we don't feel like we're allowed or able to do anything we're afraid we'll cross over into taking the initiative or being mean there's a certain a fair amount of women who want to be biblical and how they get to marriage which by the way a shameless plug yes you're about to i will give a shameless plug for your other book right is it called get married what women can do to help it happen. What are we supposed to do about the world is falling apart and everything is you know. Going to hell in a handbasket the culture is falling apart we were in a public policy program i said what's the answer what are we supposed to do and he said. Just reading the newspaper this morning i was overwhelmed again by how bad things are. What is happening. And then i remembered our interview coming up and i thought know this is exactly what god wants us to do he wants us to keep being faithful keep being fruitful every baby that's born is a reminder that the lord still has a plan for this generation a new generation is being born right now yeah and that's the vision i think we've lost and we're going to get to that in a little bit is the generational vision of you know we are such a. A me time here and now in this moment just pursuing the next thing and we've lost sight i think of the bigger picture of building god's kingdom not generational vision we see in scripture but yeah i want to i want to hear some of the reasons why you think. People young couple specifically christian couples i know our podcast is geared toward christian women so that's going to be the majority of our listeners here. But you know i hear reasons for why it's not a good time to have a baby right like it's we don't have the money saved up you know we want to pay off these debts or we're just too busy or we're both working and we you know we need to climb the ladder in our jobs and maybe down the road we'll figure out a little window that's going to open up and we can have a family i mean what reasons are you hearing for why couples are saying no no no no no we're not having kids yet because. Yeah one of the big ones is that the husband and wife are not on the same page so the wife wants babies and the husband doesn't or the husband wants babies in the wife isn't ready and a lot of times it's just a matter of. Talking to them as brother and sister in christ and i will say this happens so much more effectively in the context of a local church membership most of the conversations i have that are like the one mary had with me or with fellow church members because we have we have a base of trust and responsibility for one another. But i do go to where angels fear to tread i do ask. Young women who were married so you know do you hope to have children i don't assume because i have found a lot of them were more like what you experienced where they say we've been trying for 6 years and we've been trying for 7 years and suddenly now i'm burning for them and i know oh gosh i need to be praying for them and praying with them and. Encouraged and know that you know you're not alone and it is. When the lord said there will be pain in childbirth. It is pain and childbearing it is pain throughout the whole timeline of being a mom longing to have a baby. So i'm off topic again but no it's so good encouraging couples where one wants a baby and the other isn't ready one to pray for unity in their marriage. And to encourage and even challenged the one who isn't ready to say. Are you asking the lord to make you one in how you're thinking about having children and just to present to them. The biblical vision for what. Babies are a reward from the lord a blessing from god. You know when god blessed adam and eve the blessing was be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. And god's vision is. Couples making babies who then they spend their lives making disciples of jesus it is a huge gospel opportunity it is the primary ministry of most. Average couples you know most christian couples aren't going to go to deepest darkest africa. They are just going to stay home and have a few kids and how they raise those kids in the fear of the lord or don't. Is a huge opportunity to be a gospel outpost it's just such an important message for young couples to hear because they're not hearing it. I think another reason that couples resist the idea of starting their family is because there's so much pressure on social media and in the culture around us to prioritize how we look. And babies are hard on our bodies the the the the the the beauty marks of having babies. Who said her 3 year old saw her get out of the shower her daughter and she was touching the stretch marks on her stomach and asking mommy what are these marks. And she just teared up and said those are my beauty marks. Our bodies and we treat them like commodities and we forget that they were designed for a purpose to do something and. Our daughter was born. I was still carrying around baby weight and feeling unattractive and. I had this breakthrough thought though my body is doing what it was designed to do. And it is okay and it's good to go against what the culture holds up is beautiful because it's so often with the culture holds up as beautiful isn't even true right it's so fake yes filters and photoshop and change and modified yes and if it's not true it isn't really beautiful you know you have the good the beautiful and the true and those three things the transcendentals that play-doh talked about. They hang together and something that isn't true like an airbrush photo. Can't be beautiful by definition and something that the world would say is ugly like a deformed. Beautiful baby born with a horrible defects birth defects disfigurement. That in god's eyes is so beautiful. Helping women have a bigger vision for what their bodies are for reminding them ladies your hair it's good you're going to get it already there and your cheeks are going to come back to place i mean we are you know what is paul says remembered beautiful years. Are so fleet. They are passing like a vapor. And to spend all of those years trying to hold on to that beauty and not doing the thing that you think will affect that beauty. You're still going to you're still going to say you're still going to wrinkle you're still going to change the lbs that you wish you could shed. So i say either i say have the babies and then become a little less what the culture says is awesome. And i'm a couple years. And you know our youngest is getting older and i just don't feel like i'm ready because i just don't want to lose weight and you know this vision of what the body needs to look like even to be ready to have another baby but as you were talking i was thinking of a lot of our single sisters who are they're not teens some of them are but a lot of them are in their twenties and thirties and the pressure on social media especially for single women when it comes to body image is so incredibly intense and i'm telling you. I'm like talking about this from girl to find all the time and finding my own self struggling regularly as i'm looking at these perfect images of women my age who have way better skin than me who don't struggle with pimples still who don't have lines on their face who are perfectly in shape you know. Instagram is getting to me because i feel like all i'm seeing our butts on there like it's like the new fat is to show off your butt and your perfectly timed but i'm like i just i need to take a break i just can't see anymore but you know maybe i need them. Possibly last. Maybe two decades if you're like 15 right now i don't know but that lie that trap and then. Having kids having babies now becomes like ooh the thing that we want to stay away from because it's going to alter our bodies even more and move us further away from that goal that we have which is based on a lie which is not even grounded in scripture. So i'm so glad you brought that up what is there any encouragement you can give to our younger single sisters as they are currently wrestling with that seeing that and they're not even having kids yet but i know when they get there this is going to be a challenge. The best advice i can give you. From the bottom of my heart is get off social media. Kristen i know you have to be there you're an evangelist there you have a job that requires you or at least compels you to be there for part of your life but you shouldn't be there like everybody else is there we should if we're going to do social media we should do it as. God's daughters as ambassadors for him. And i i i just think i'm willing to be that woman that says you know i'm not on social media. Because some of us have to stay off of it to stay sane and to be able to throw lifelines to our sisters to say. You don't have to live that way there is a better way there is so much freedom. From not getting lost. The comparison trap it's it's either envy or greed i i didn't have the strength to be on social media. Because it was always either envy or greed. I left feeling really great about myself. How do they afford that and. It just fuels sin in my heart. And it it just sucks my time in such a way that i don't even know i'm spending it so teddy was too he's 13 now and i was sitting at my desk typing something for facebook. I'm sure it was so urgent and he came up to me and he was pulling on my arm and i found myself. Trying to get him off my arm kind of move him aside son i'm busy mommy's busy. What am i doing. I am pushing away my flesh and blood son. Who i love i would die for him. I've had so many i feel like i've reclaimed so much of my life. Just by stepping away from what everybody else assumes it's just natural and the same way we assume we have to go on the pill everybody assumes they have to be on facebook because if they're not on facebook. Life isn't going to happen to them right cuz if you don't see it on facebook you don't see it. There is another way to live but at a minimum we have to be better stewards of this and remember we're going to give an account to the lord for how we spent every minute scrolling scrolling scrolling. Hey i think i think someone listening right now need to hear that so you're willing to say the hard truths. The hard exhortations and that's so good because it isn't something that we need to automatically all be on and you know to be honest i'm not on facebook personally i am on instagram but hardly ever i mean my sister is always like can you please post every now and then so people know you're still alive but i find myself wrestling with the same things you're talking about those ditches that you can so easily fall in and i'm just so much happier to not be on it but with our ministry yes we do that's a huge way that we can connect so but it is a little bit of a battle so i'm glad you you gave. Anyone listening you heard her you have the freedom to get off. And you said something very interesting at the beginning of this conversation budget for everything except kids what does that mean. It means that unlike anything you can buy. Babies are eternal and they will be somewhere forever heaven or hell hopefully with you in heaven. Everything else we buy everything. Will not last. And so morgan dr morgan was so. Enthusiastic he always said these things these you know he would throw these bombs and what he would throw them with a smile. And it was so. Jolting and jarring to us to realize. We're treating baby a baby like a thing that we have to save money to buy and that's not how it works. It's good to be fiscally responsible. The proverbs are full of. Wisdom sayings about. Storing up for the future and owing no man anything but i think we have to be honest in our consumer culture we spend so much money on things that we don't need. And it's really good to have someone in your life challenge you on that and say okay but how much money do you really need in your budget to have a baby what does it really cost you don't have to buy all the gear. You know all you need to hold a baby is your arms you don't have to have these. Wraps and table of things and you know bouncy seats so true. You know target purchasing frenzy kind of thing. And once you get pregnant in the context of a church you can't imagine how many hand-me-downs in. How much it cost to have a baby and. I feel the same way like. If that's true what is it like 250,000 over the lifetime like how does anybody afford so where are they getting those numbers from and what is realistic like if a couple like yes babies do cost something they're not you know cost-free but they're not costing $250,000 i mean unless there's some extreme. Medical needs or something like that but what's realistic. I don't think that budget should be a factor i think if if the husband is working full-time. Then you as a couple need to learn how to live within what he makes and and that's okay that's good to hear. But you married him and he is biblically charged with being the provider and the protector and thankfully so many women can. Bring their creativity and help support you know build up the family purse a bit and. My goodness we have so many options now for working from home and creativity and flexibility and so we can contribute in ways that are very proverbs 31. But i've had to wrestle with this myself and i've counseled so many younger women to say. Used to having all this extra money for doing the things you want to do but what would it take for you to get down to one. And are you willing to do that i don't think it's a question of can you repeat that we live in especially in the us we live in such a wealthy country again. Everything you need you could probably get donated from friends at church. Barring you know some unforeseen medical. The lord is our provider. Not the company we work. And so he knows what we're going to need for the babies that he appoints for us to have he is sovereign over all these things and i think the journey to getting from thinking in a budget mindset to trusting the lord with this is a journey of spiritual maturity. And rightly understanding who are provider is and submitting to the provision the lord gives us and coming under our husbands and saying okay. And i'm still learning how to do this how do i live contentedly. With what the lord provides for us. Everybody's going to have to learn that because it doesn't matter how much money you have you feel like you don't have enough and it doesn't change. You know when you get a raise or you have a down year you still feel that sense if i want more and that's because we have disordered once and we need our water to be fixed by god it's broken wow that is so good i think you nailed it there cuz i was as you were talking i was thinking like what is at that like what's underlining that the idea of like i don't have enough money or we need to save more is it that you really do need to save more or is it that you. Are you don't want to give up the life that you're accustomed to that you're comfortable with even if it's not a lavish life you know there are going to be sacrifices made and you don't want you don't want that yet. You just want to have you know that kind of like the it just seems like the standard way that young christian married couples go is they get married and then there's like 45 years of just the two of them and then down the road they have babies and i know everyone has different motivations and reasons and we're all. Struggling and working toward understanding you know hopefully understanding god's design but i wonder if. If we're honest with ourselves if so much of it is that our wants are not truly aligned with god's heart. I've had so many encouraging stories of couples that have. Stepped out in faith and said okay we're going to trust god and just to hear how the lord provided for them. One couple said that they were going to go down to one and come and so they got down to one car and. Another couple. The husband was i think it took him a year to find a job and they went ahead and and she got pregnant and they were expecting and he was still looking for a job and just to walk through that with them and encourage them that it wasn't wrong. To embrace the gift of children. It it can sound very irresponsible they got a lot of pushback from relatives who said what are you doing don't you guys know how babies are made why are you getting pregnant he doesn't even have a job yet. No he wasn't. You know a lazy bum kind of guy who wasn't looking for a job his job is full-time job was looking for a job and the lord provided for him but to see them trust god and to receive children as the gift that they are remembering that up until very recently in human history. Every baby was born in a very impoverished situation so true mary and joseph. My lord and savior i mean we just have such a warped idea of what's required to have children so another barrier that i hear from women or even just see is the idea that that when we're told us from culture that we need to build our career first and then think about having babies sometime down the road. What would you say to that. Well i would say that it is so tempting because you get out of school and you've taken on the dad and you've got in the degree. But why do you have to spend your twenties which is your most fertile time of your life building your career. Who says well the culture says or you know whatever messages were getting. But as i am learning there is so much life that happens after your kids are grown. And there's really a ton of life if you say okay well once my kids are. You know high school now they're spending hours a day where they're independent and learning and even if you're homeschooling they're still doing a lot on their own so you can squeeze in a lot more freelancing even what we're doing today kristen is because our kids are of the age two of them i'm still homeschooling but they're at a co-op today so tuesday is my day i'm going to cram in some career stuff some you know some ministry stuff yes. But i am getting excited about once our youngest is gone okay lord what are you going to have for me then. And i'm looking forward to a season that is down the road and i'm so thankful i didn't front-load my career into my twenties. Because it would have really limited how many kids we could have had. I love the story of moses who was educated at the finest institutions right he was a prince of egypt educated. In egypt and he got this great education and then what does god do he sends him into the median. Wilderness to be a shepherd for 40 years to prepare him to go back to egypt. To be the deliverer of his people. Did he then go into the desert for 40 years and at the end of his life you think why did god give moses that education that top shelf. Ivy league egyptian education why. You know right why did moses need to know how to read and write. So we can write the old testament yes the pentateuch i mean. He had to have that education but i get i'm guessing what moses's idea of what he would do with his degree when he was done obviously. Play in a little loose here but. And how often do we think we know what we need to do with our degree and people say i got this degree if i don't use it i'll waste it and i'll say no. If you spend your degree. Running a small corporation called your family home. Doctor you'll be a teacher i mean it's an expansive job to be a mom and and you really do end up being like the chief operating officer right now can be the chief executive officer he makes the big decisions he leads. And i am excited about taking all the life experience that i've gained. Once the kids are gone. And i don't anticipate or hope that they'll be far gone cuz i really want to be involved in grandchildren's lives but i do think they'll be a season that lord willing or i'll be able to make. Some sort of a professional. Babies later sometime down the road when it's convenient when you've reached all these other goals but we're missing out on our best fertility years and that is something i know more about my fertility now than i ever did before because having walked through infertility i've been constantly researching and studying and going to doctors and finding out i'm like i didn't know any of this when i got married about just even the basics of my cycle and ovulation and before and after and just how everything works and that might peak fertility years are in like my twenties and once you get 35 everything starts going downhill and you know you can hit menopause early or you know it's just like we're not told any of this until it's too late and then we look back and go okay i have achieved on my dreams but now i want to have a baby and i can't because i waited too long i mean just by logically there like you said there is a clock so. There is there are other things to think about even when it comes to just how our bodies are designed as women. Amazing professional achievements pale in comparison to having. I had a friend. Yes i had a friend who was on the track to become a lawyer so she was like. Godly christian woman. How how do heart envision for family but she's like i really want to become a lawyer to then be able to stand for causes and culture so biblical christian causes. And she just realized this path is not going to enable me to. I'm never going to see them because of the demands of this job and so she completely changed her career path doesn't mean she gave up all of her passions or her desire to want to make an impact she just had to shift how that was going to look so that she could prioritize being able to get married and have kids and that's exactly what she did and now she makes an impact in ways that are able to prioritize her family first but i just remember seeing this year's seeing her make these choices years ago and i just thought wow that's really courageous that is something that i think a lot of other women if they think down the road just bigger picture more than the next five years they'll realize how was this all actually going to work out. What will that look like at the. So good. There's a few more things i really want to touch on and one that we haven't really hit on is the is what is the heart of god for children and family and how have we know that we have strayed you know in this conversation is so apparently we have strayed as christian women we don't even if we aren't intentionally. Thinking that we're rejecting god's plan i think so often we are because we aren't growing and learning and understanding what his good design his heart is for this so i know it's a big question but in a nutshell can you give us a vision of what biblical family should look like. Well it begins in genesis when god blesses adam and eve and says be fruitful and multiply and of course the fruitfulness he's talking about there is primarily fundamentally having babies and then we see it throughout the storyline of scripture that his plan. For babies was to lead to the birth. The lord jesus christ. And we continue to be procreative to have children so that the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of god as the waters cover the sea i was thinking about that verse this morning from isaiah. And habakkuk. And. Knowledge who has knowledge its people. Alright it's not like the trees are going to have knowledge of god of god's glory the way people do until the earth to be covered with the knowledge of the lord. It has to be covered with people. And that's a whole other issue we could talk about is this myth of overpopulation and suddenly all these major western nations are frantic because they don't have enough people. People are human capital is the best capital there is. He made us procreative beings he built it into our design he linked that ability to our strongest drive maybe i mean. Maybe to eat is stronger but it's certainly very very close right the desire to be sexually expressive with the one you love is such a strong desire and that's where babies come from and so it babies will continue as long as people continue. Being raised in the fear of the lord. Treasure christ and trust in the lord. Glorious deeds psalm 78 says to the coming generations will learn from their parents about the glorious deeds of god. And the things that he has done and how many parents even without realizing it or hiding god's glorious deeds from their children just by neglecting. To teach them about him and to give time to daily go to the word with their children and again. Social media and entertainment and sports. There's so many distractions we have an embarrassment of riches when it comes to ways to spend our time and we neglect discipling our kids. Heritage their heritage they're a gift they're a blessing. How can we like understand what that really is talking about and and like embrace it because if we really did believe that i think is christian women it would change the way we approach family. I live. I have a lived reality of experiencing children as a reward one of the translation says children are a reward from god's hand. I think that when you follow god's design for having babies and. Having his glory is the ultimate reason that you're doing everything it's not a vanity project you know kids aren't in an accessory you don't accessorize your life with a key. And when you are submitting yourself to the sanctification that he does in your life. Through the hard work of being a mom and a dad. And you devote yourself to discipline in your children and discipling them and then delighting in them. Well disciplined kids are such a delight. And i think we we get into trouble one of the ditches is to be so focused on discipline that we forget about the delight. I mean our kids are our favorite people in the world to spend time with we love hanging out with our kids there's so much fun. And i just think wow you are missing out on so much and so i want to one of the things that we like to do is just have young families and especially young couples into our home just for a game night or music night where the kids there they have a band and they all play together and eat around the table together to talk and just to hear for these young couples to hear. My husband loving his wife and leading her with a servant heart a wife joyfully submitting to his leadership and trusting god not fearing what is frightening as peter talks about. Children who honor and obey their parents children who like each other just. When we go to the grocery store and our kids are just they they aren't doing anything remarkable. But thanks be to god by his grace. We are. Doing this thing called family in a way that is so against the culture and we've made a lot of decisions along the way about how we parent and what we embrace and what we don't. We have a pretty unplugged life and a pretty analog home you know. Brothers and sisters in christ. That's a huge vision it changes everything i mean just the what you're describing and like i want that mean i think your next book needs to be all about parenting on oh my goodness are you ready oh yes yes yes yes i'm so excited okay start your family are you actually doing this or are you. Don't stop i need it and everyone listening music i'll give you a little bit of a deadline so good that vision so i know right now there are listeners who are wandering okay candice great i get this vision okay the gospel wonderful but are you saying i just need to have as many children as i can possibly crank out i mean is there a biblical balance or how should we even think about family planning biblically i know that's a huge question and i'm still even like we're on the other side of like a joke with my husband i'm like we've been trying since day one and we're going to keep trying till i hit menopause we're not going to give up hope until the door so family planning is an applicable to us because we're always trying but for people who are like how do we think about this realistically yeah. Will a word to people who are worried ladies if you're worried that you're going to have. 18 babies if you say okay i'll just trust the lord. Most couples are limited to fewer children than they wanted. Interesting they are blessed with more children than they thought they. And there are other factors that play into that but. People that get tv shows because they have 18 babies got tv shows because they were not the norm. That was unusual that's so true. The lord has given us a cycle that we can track. And understand and he's given us a mind to figure out when we're fertile. And we can use that. To space our babies naturally. I think that there are non-invasive. Ways to bury your methods and things you can do for occasional seasonal. Birth control we did that at points in our marriage when you know the like the baby was brand new and we got the green light from the doctor okay you're clear to go back to your. Marital activities and it's like oh but if i get pregnant and she's 6 and a half weeks old what would i do that so i think i think there is christian freedom to. But even for seasons i think some forms of birth control as long as they're not potentially a board of facial and i am always opposed to chemical birth control because i've just seen the damage it can do to a woman's body. I will say that birth control using birth control changes the act of marriage the intimacy of sexual intercourse. Because it. You can't help but have some sort of a spiritual bar. I can't explain it it's not scientific but i felt it. And i know that when we decided to start trying and we were suddenly not doing anything to try to prevent pregnancy. Oneness that was so overwhelmingly beautiful to me in this sense of. At age 39. And it was devastating to have someone tell me i was done it feels so empowering to say oh i'm done we're done. But when someone tells you you're done and you can't. Have children. It's a very different feeling and i am 52 now and i still sometimes dream about having a baby and i still sometimes think oh. I missed that our intimacy doesn't even have the possibility of producing. There is such a beauty to the way god's designed it. And you can't know it until you experience no i've never even thought about that to be honest until you said it this very minute. When the intimacy has the possibility to conceive and when the conception. Peace is gone it changes in some way like that's i've never even thought about that and that's not to diminish intimacy right but can't produce children as well yes but just to say that when we take that into our own hands and say i am going to prevent this. There's a posture there a heart attitude of being closed off to something. And when you take that away and say okay lorde. Unto me according to your will when you have that kind of. The sense of surrender to the lord that says i'm open. I'm open to what you have for us and when a couple says that together we're open. Oh it's just a spiritually rich. Even if we don't feel like the timing's perfect or we don't have every last diamond penny organizing our finances or our family is telling us we're crazy like. Just thought that aspect of trusting the lord like willing to say we're not ultimately in control god is and he's our father he's our provider he says children are a blessing this family this generational this heritage raising up. Disciples for his glory like we can trust him with that this is a good thing we know. Confidently by the truth of scripture that we're pursuing a good beautiful thing. And i even asked steve if he would have a vasectomy and he said no praise god he said no and you know why i said that because i had lost all the baby weight and i was the thinnest i had ever been in my adult life and i loved how i looked. It was such a bad reason. And so we took off 2 years. From trying. And then when we started we thought okay we're ready for a third. I couldn't get pregnant. And how do i undo this and. I i got to the point of being willing to try some heroic measures or extra measures or you know some just kind of tip my toe down that infertility path yeah and. In god's kindness and mercy we can see. Add churchill was born. How did you even know. Play cycle was so wonky. And i was. I just thought something's weird and we would we wanted another baby and so i went to see a natural hormones okay. And she did all the blood work. We would love to have another baby but the doctors say mommy can't have more babies but you know what. We can pray. We did and i started on bioidentical hormones or plant-based they're wonderful am i so came back and i called that doctor i said i think my cycle's back she said oh no that's just break through bleeding you know you're done. I got pregnant. But god said no i am in charge i open the womb and i closed the womb. And and i just think now if we had waited to start having our babies when we thought we were going to be ready back when we were married and mary was asking me that question. Who knows what our family would look like. We have one in heaven we had a miscarriage between harrison and zoe and that was another pregnancy i wasn't expecting that i didn't want to be pregnant i mean just so many things the lord teaches you through this painful journey of trying to have children. I wish we'd had more. I wish we hadn't stopped you know i wish we hadn't taken that to your break and yet. I rest in the comfort that god is so. And he has promised to redeem everything for our good and his glory if we are trusting in him and so that has to be the message to say whatever your story. The lord is sovereign and look to him to redeem the pain of the past and to guide and direct. For the hopeful future. And know that she is faithful. Hey man wow that is so so beautiful so in closing cuz i know we're out of time here but i wanted to ask you so much more than we are actually having on a doctor for our next episode to talk specifically about birth control and hormonal birth control in the impact. So i'm super excited about that conversation but just as we close here any anything we haven't touched on that you're like man i just want to give this final encouragement to young moms even single women as they're hearing this conversation. Wow that's a great that's a big one ok google oh my goodness well i would just say. Stop. Stop making these decisions based on worldly wisdom and search the scriptures and pray with your husband and ask him. To commit to praying that the lord would shape your thoughts about this. Fast and pray if that's what it takes seek the counsel of older couples we never even really talked about how to find mentors in your life older couples who have done this who are further down the path. Who can walk with you through this and and pray ask people to pray with you about having babies if you desire to have children. And you haven't had them yet. It's good to pray about that it's good to pray with your small group with your pastor with your with your mom with your sister. The lord cares more about this than you do and he is for you and so go to him. And seek the lord and seek his wisdom and. Ask him lord if i am thinking about this in any way. That is contrary to your word and your will. Where i have absorbed the world's wisdom would you would you clear that out of my mind and help me to think with wisdom. About this most important of issues the window of time is shorter than we think it will be. We have a fertility window that will close the world and all the infertility clinics want you to think. That you can wait till your 40 and then start trying and be like the movie stars who played with that way but it is not what it appears yeah it is it is prohibitively expensive. Difficult on your body. Run to the lord and just ask him lord grow me and mature me in this area and then whatever you teach me through it and if you bless us with children. Give me what i'm going to need cuz it is a wild ride boy is it's sweet and rich and so full of joy yeah yeah and the sacrifice of motherhood can you touch on that really quickly you know if there's a new mom listening with the baby and she's not sleeping at all up all night feeling like a zombie what encouragement do you have for her to just keep the bigger picture in mind yes well the first encouragement won't surprise you get off social media that sweet middle of the night and it is so tempting i think god i did not have a smartphone when i had babies because they hadn't been invented yet it is possible to do i probably would have spent the majority of that time looking at my feet and wow talk about a way to feel bad about yourself because you know you're leaking out of every part of your body and nothing fits and you can't sleep and everything hurts. And yet what your baby needs most in that moment is for you to hold and smell the new baby smell and and give all your attention and pray and sing over that baby and just soak it in because it will go so fast. And you will sleep again i promise you you absolutely will sleep again. But spend that sweet time. Just with your baby praying and and talking to the lord and being all in its bone-weary and work it does get easier. The the young years are so physically challenging they need help with everything. But the teen years are so mentally and spiritually challenging because they need you to really give your best counsel and friendship and guidance and so now they don't need you to wipe their nose or button their shoes or their you know there's. But they need you to be available to talk about deep issues and to walk with them and so i would say stay engaged all along at every stage give your best attention to your kids. The best way to do that is to turn off the distractions are kids need our attention are they need us to be fully there in the moment. And we are our kids favorite play thing they would so much rather yes mom than to have a toy and they definitely need you more than a screen. Read me a story. Give them yourself. Oh the fruit is so so sweet kristen stay in their keep homeschooling keep teaching those kids pouring into them. The world the flesh and the devil conspires against our kids satan is so eager to devour our children that picture of the dragon in revelation waiting to devour. And they need parents or champions for them to say i will not give you over to the world i am parenting you and claiming you for the kingdom and i'm going to do everything i can to share the good news of jesus christ with you so that you will be my brother my sister in christ eternity. I need to hear that and i think a lot of other women did too i actually recently made a little bit of a commitment i don't know it just in my heart of if my boys ask not it's not every single time but if they say hey mom want to go play basketball or can you do this puzzle with me or you know my default is like no i can't i'm busy right now i'm cooking dinner i'm doing and there are times where i can't just drop everything but there are many times where i could i'm doing something that isn't urgent it's not crucially important that i keep doing that thing or it's completely stupid like it's something that doesn't even matter and you know more often than not it's like oh no and so recently i was like no i need i want to be investing and i want to be so i was put to the test just recently like yesterday my son came to me was like oh mom basketball and i was in the middle of about to start dinner but i was like you know what. I can wait a few minutes. Sure and i just said sure and he was kind of shocked. He was so excited he ran outside you know and our. Shut down and push you out of their lives. You just have to stay engaged for the whole journey. And that means giving them your attention you're right it means being willing to say yes i'll play catan with you again google play foursquare outside or go shoot basketball or whatever they love to do. To be available to our kids that's so good oh there's so much more but we i will let you go thank you for all of your words of wisdom and encouragement i would love it though as we officially close this out if you would pray for me for our whole sisterhood listening coming from all different backgrounds and walks of life just just pray over us and our hearts as we seek the lord in this super important area i would love to. Lord jesus thank you for this conversation and for the way that you knit our hearts together as sisters in christ. Oh father how we need your help and your wisdom to walk in a manner that is worthy of the gospel. In this culture that does pull on us and we are tempted in many ways lord help us to. Look to you for the wisdom we need each day i pray that you set our priorities i pray that you would be with those listening who long to have a baby who can't or hasn't been able to yet or who have a husband who is not on the same page with them or would you give them patience. And help them to trust you and to pour out their heart to you to cast their cares on you because you care for them. Lord would you caused many couples. To embrace the reward and gift and blessing of children would you stir up in our hearts and this generation. A believers a renewed vigour and zeal. But having babies who would grow up to become disciples of jesus. Landlord may we embrace the sanctification that comes from parenting the way you've designed us to it is hard it is costly. That's when we find our life in christ and when we. When we give we find that it really is more blessed than to receive oh how much better to pour ourselves out for other people for the next generation. Lord help us to be willing to make the sacrifices that will be required and to taste the the good fruit that comes from that help us to trust you. Anything that we've talked about that is not helpful that is. Wrongly discouraging for listeners let that just fall away and let what remains be useful and helpful and may you receive all the glory for whatever decisions come out of this conversation i just praise you and thank you for the ministry of. A girl defined and the work that they're doing to be an example and a mentor and a light in a very dark culture may we band together as women as sisters in christ. To pray for one another to encourage one another. May the older help the younger and the younger help the younger under them lord help us to be faithful. In your strength lord thank you for your spirit that helps us. I pray father that you would answer these prayers in the mighty name of jesus christ amen amen okay everybody go grab a coffee start your family inspiration for having babies by steve and candace waters candace and her husband you will not regret this read if you appreciated this conversation and you were like whoa maybe i need to listen to this again do that but then go grab a copy of this book because what we just talked about is like the tip of the iceberg when it comes to how much more there is to unpack in this conversation. Candice thank you so much where can people connect with you i know we're not going to find you on social media but where is there a website or is getting your book the best option yeah well the website is the place to get. And all of the inventory is here so if you want that book you just need to email me and i will send it to you. The email is waters. Add family.com its waters with two t's at family making cam. Candice thank you so much i really appreciate it. It was a joy i'm so glad we had this conversation. Yes same have a good one you too. 