Today on the girl to find show i get to talk with my new friend abby halberstadt she's a mother of 10 kids and get this she's only 40 years old yes you heard that right you may know her by the name m is for mama she has a really popular website and instagram account and just came out with a brand new book titled m is for mama and she's passionate about helping christian mom's everywhere rebel against mediocre motherhood and in my conversation today we get all the goods from her she shares what a day in the life for her looks like with 10 kids how she prioritizes her marriage with her husband and still makes date nights happen on a weekly basis she talks about how relatability is it the gold standard for motherhood but if you look on social media that's what we see. How to approach motherhood with the same ambition as any professional career and how we as moms can look to scripture to guide our mothering and so much more hey sisterhood it's kristen here and i'm so glad you're joining me for this special episode this is going to be fun if you're new here welcome i'm so glad you're here as well you'll learn you'll quickly learn that our passion here at girl define is to help women everywhere including herself learn what it means through god's word to be women who are defined by god girls to find by god rather than girls to find by the world and god's word has wisdom and truth to offer us in every area of our lives he is our designer therefore he's our definer he is our father our creator and his plan for our womanhood is so beautiful. And that includes his plan for motherhood and he has beautiful scripture and truths and wisdom for us and how to be. What do you say a successful what do you value in motherhood in family lord help my desires my worldview what i view a success help that to be in line with your word to be rooted in your word and coming from a scriptural biblical gospel-centered lens and that's exactly what we're going to get today with abby halberstadt in my conversation with her. But if you're single or unmarried or married and you don't have kids i encourage you to stick around because if you think there's ever any possible chance in your future that you will ever become a mom someday. Then why not gain wisdom now why not understand. How to think biblically about motherhood before you even get there or. Infertility my heart goes out to you i am still in a season of infertility i have two precious adopted kids that god has given my husband and me and they are the greatest gifts in our lives but still i have never been able to conceive and have a biological child help you know healthy pregnancy multiple miscarriages and so i get it i get that pain in my heart totally goes out to you but something i think you may even find valuable or someone else listening if you're like i don't know if i'll ever have kids i don't know if i'll ever get married. Is that learning a biblical framework for motherhood having a biblical understanding. It's not just necessary for your own kids but think about how you interact with other people's kids with a sister's kids or a friend's kids or anyone else's children having a biblical understanding can help you. In the way that you view them and the way you interact with them and the way that you may have the opportunity to even disciple them to impact their lives for christ as you point them back to scripture and so i think this conversation is really valuable for everyone we all need a biblical framework when it comes to motherhood whether we are moms or will ever be moms because it's important and how we view this and how we treat other moms and how we interact with other kids so this is really for everyone not just for moms. But i do want to say if you're not in a season of being a mom or you don't think that's coming anytime soon then yes of course buying abby's book is still going to be awesome but i think something that might be more relevant for you right now i'm really even if you are a mom this book is really relevant for you too because it's all about laying a foundation for what biblical woman hit is what is biblical womanhood how do we live it out in this modern day and age and that is exactly why bethany and i wrote our first book girl defined and it's all about god's design for beauty femininity and identity understanding biblical womanhood understanding what god says about women how he defines us how we so often get our definitions our view of success our purpose as women are identity as women. From the world from our own desires from things that aren't even biblical or scriptural and so our book the goal in our for ourselves as we continue to grow and understanding god's design for womanhood is that we can encourage the sisterhood as well to say god has a beautiful plan a better way there is so much freedom as we surrender every area of our womanhood to god and we say god you are my creator you know what's best you are the king you are my father helped me to humble myself and to look to your word for truth. For answers to define who i am as a woman and when we have that heart of surrender when we grow. Can we understand and we learn about who god created us to be as women define by him then it's in that i think will truly thrive in ways that we never ever had before so please grab a copy of girl define god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity i don't care if you get it free from your library if you borrow it from a friend if you get the audio book or if you just go to amazon and order a copy or get it from our website at girl to find.com i think you will find so much benefit whether you're single dating engaged or married from having that foundational understanding of what it means to be a woman to find by god in every area of your lives and it's all just a really fun i think you'll laugh and cry when we get really real really honest we had a lot of fun writing it i think you'll find it kind of entertaining as well okay so grab a copy of girl fight and then if you are on that season of motherhood definitely get a copy of and is from mama a rebellion against mediocre motherhood okay let's start in to my epic conversation with abby. Abby welcome to the girl to find show. Thanks so much for having me. I am pumped to chat with you i have so many questions and we're going to get through as many of them as we possibly can. But before i get into your book and why you wrote it and all that good stuff i know people are going to want to know a little bit about you and obviously having 10 kids is a pretty unique thing in this day and age i'm from a family of eight kids so it's not shocking to me i'm like oh yeah you know it's kind of normal but that's not really how it feels for most people. So i'm curious and i know a lot of our listeners will be too. Did you always want to have a big family did you get married wanting to have a big family did you grow up in a big family give us a little bit of that background and kind of. Where that came from. Yeah those are the most common questions that i get asked for sure so people assume that i usually come from or people usually say that i came from a big family i just have one older brother and people are really shocked i don't know why that's so shocking that your life could look different than the life that you grew up with because that's going to be true for so many people but they're like oh no way and then people have the same question did you always go for this this is something that you were shooting for this was a goal of yours cuz i do know people that have very specific kid goals in mind whether it's anywhere in between. And the answer again is absolutely not. I'm kind of an unlikely mom of many in that i really wasn't a very nurturing motherly sort when i was younger i was athletic i was academic i was. All about you know running and jumping and. Spelling bees i was homeschooled growing up so we had a lot of opportunities contrary to what people think for socialization because we had more time to do it and so just involved in a lot of different things just always kind of going and doing and. Having a lot of different interests but i wouldn't have said that kids. I didn't i mean i assumed i would be i wasn't opposed to it it wasn't a negative connotation for me at all my own mom is fantastic and i have a great relationship with her. And i definitely grew up hearing that children are a blessing hearing a biblical view of children and i think that's where the conviction to leave an open-handed view of fertility of the ultimate number that the lord would give me came from is that my mom and my dad both. Desired whatever the lord had for them and he had two kids for them they never made any attempt to keep from having children and my mom experienced a lot of miscarriage and a lot of loss and a lot of secondary infertility after she had me and my brother. And so her story is very different than mine and maybe subconsciously i had in my mind that my my story could end with one or two or three kids because that's what my mom. Who already had that conviction. That that i wasn't interested in hormonal birth control that i wasn't interested and iuds or other kind of devices that could do things to my body cuz i've done some research on that and have been taught about that growing up but those were. Medically untenable for me but also that i have the conviction that the lord was to be lord of all aspects of my life not just my education not just my finances not just who i would marry not just what i would do for a living but that my womb was also his and so and yes as a 16 year old like i definitely didn't have a lot of people relating to that but it was just such an abstract thing because i wasn't sexually active i wasn't married you know i didn't know what the lord would do with my body so if he had just kind of laid it out for me and thank god that he doesn't think that he doesn't give us exactly what's going to happen in 10 years cuz i think we would run from so many of the things that he uses to shape us and to grow us and sanctify us and to bring his joy that we wouldn't have chosen for ourselves. I wasn't shooting aiming gunning for any particular number and the lord just kind of has shocked me over the last 10 years including with two sets of twins and how many kids did you get. That's amazing so when you and your husband got married how old were you one and what was he also on the same page of just got sovereignty over the womb. Yeah he i was 22 and he was 25 when we got married on our second date i have been engaged to another guy before and we weren't on the same page was part of this part of the reason why we ended up not together among other things and he was a great godly guy but he just wasn't on the same wavelength of. On our second. My husband's name is sean on sean's in my second date i turn to him we're sitting in the car after a concert and he and i said you know there's something you need to know about me and i'm sure he was like oh is she going to say and i said. You know i i am open to how many kids the lord has for me and i know that's a really unusual mindset and not usually what a girlfriend would be telling you on the second day but this is something that i have a very strong conviction about and i feel like i already like you but i don't want to go any further if we're not compatible in this and i said you know i could have like six kids you know when that be crazy. And he told me years later that his brain was stuck on the number eight which i thought was hilarious like he didn't say it at the time where i probably would have been a little bit freaked out as i'm trying to freak him out of the family of three he's one of three brothers. And so also not a particularly giant family. And i don't really know even when we had discussions he's like i don't know i just i just like kids and i always liked the idea of having. Having a full family so i had no idea what he was going to say honestly seems like a really great dude but i figured i would just scare him off but he wasn't even know. I mean that's like a match made in heaven for sure if you're dating second date and you're able to drop that bomb and he's like okay i think i found the one lord were you guys did you homeschool from the beginning and were you guys on the same page about that or did that come later. Generation homeschooler at 40 homeschooling was not really it was a it was a new thing my brother is 44 and my parents were like fighting for the right to homeschool him in texas and we're very active and advocating for the homeschooling community and so i knew based on my experience growing up that i would love for my kids to have a similar experience of. Freedom of schedule of freedom of kind of flow i mean i remember doing. To taylor things to what your kids need and to do all kinds of cool things during the day my best friend and i would wake up super early some mornings at 5:00 and get all of our independent work done and then we would go downtown and our little square and we would hang out at the library because that's what's cool homeschool kids do oh yeah i mean this is this is 30 years ago so what are you doing out of school like you know you're trying really weird and crazy girls or the faster pace depending on what you needed i went to college early i went to college at 15 and graduated in 1980 and started teaching high school spanish to kids that were like a year younger than i was so i just. Kind of wasn't ever locked into kind of a conventional. To seek out other ways of doing things and i wanted that for my kids and so she graduated from a small public school. And wasn't. Opposed to public school or private school cuz i've taught high school. Public school private school. Of schooling options and sean wasn't opposed to public school was kind of intrigued by the concept of homeschooling. And we will give it a shot and he loves it now. Wow so my older brother's 40 i'm 30 know he's 39 i'm 36 and so i was also homeschooled and now homeschooling my boys and i know exactly what you're talking about like we would go outside and play and the neighbors would call cps on us like multiple times and they would come over and my parents are like we home school you know and they just didn't they thought we were at the craziest family eight kids and we're all out on the driveway and so we had to have some boundaries my mom's like okay backyard until like 2 p.m. then you can play in the front yard we had some crazy neighbors but i remember those days but i totally with you i love the flexibility of it too with my boys and just the freedom to choose curriculum and taylor the home schooling for each kid and customized get everything done early and go have fun like. All about it but it's still a lot of work and it's still consumes a lot of your time and so i'm wondering and i'm sure everybody listening a mom of 10 who homeschools how in the world do you have time for this interview right now well a couple of reasons one we are part of a homeschool co-op so for example my older my high school students right now are at home school co-op that meets for one day a week or one and a half days if you're in a science or math program and they are so they're doing science and math this afternoon at the homeschool co-op my oldest is almost 17 he drives so he can take them there which that is a whole new world since about a year olds amazing and then we also hire my mom who homeschooled me and my brother to come two days a week. To to help out with anything that needs help with whether it's homeschooling or with dishes or vacuuming or like she's planted my entire flower beds if it weren't for her i would have nothing in my front yard with that and so just we have kind of had this unconventional system where she comes a couple of days a week for several hours and does whatever needs doing and we're just very kind of. Intuitive with each other at this point and she's very servant hearted so that works a lot i will say though that like i do my own podcast on tuesdays and i do that because my kids are either and that's the day they do homeschool co-op all day. And then i come home and i put my younger kids down for a nap. Do that and then i come down and put them down for naps and then i do my own podcast so i guess the short answer would be that i have independent older kids working. And i have work on for co-op and then i have kids to take really good naps that we kind of have set. What are the ages of the kids oldest to youngest right now. So 17 in may so 16 now 15 they're 18 months apart 12. 210 year olds i have 10 year old twin girls 864 they all just had birthdays so they're all lined up and 2 year old twin boys oh my goodness that's amazing give us a snapshot of a day in the life with abby and kids what does that look like. Yeah sure so we i get up between 6:00 and 6:30 and do personal bible reading and answer some dms and i usually have a buddy or two with me my 3 year old no just turned four my four year old is usually getting up around the same time maybe i'll get 10 or 15 minutes completely by myself. He works from home but he's in his office from 8:00 to 5:00 and so we do family dollar reading between 7:30 and 8:00 a.m. breakfast for everybody because i just provide the groceries for the breakfast and so if i'm making something that they want then i make it for anybody that wants it and then they come in and finish making their breakfast. I teach fitness classes for mornings a week one of those is when they are at homeschool co-op so three mornings a week i'm getting ready to head out between 8:00 and 9:00. I get them going on their on their math. And then i head out with a three youngest which is okay. There are a lot of energy and a lot of. Opening cupboards in the refrigerator and pulling things out that that's the face that we're in. And so we go to the gym i teach a class i come home and answer any questions that need answering. The you know the older kids are at a place where if a younger kid has a mouth question they can quickly go over and be like oh this is how it's done. Is kind of coming in around the same time that i get back if it's one of the days that she comes or i come back and we get go and we finish up with math. Start on language arts somewhere in there i'll make lunch for all the little kids the older kids are very independent with their homeschool co-op at this point i was the same way my mom trained me to manage my time to manage my school work to. To read and think for myself and so while she was there and teaching me and absolutely guiding me it wasn't like when i was 12 years old or 14 years old she was sitting right beside me like. And i think that's how it should be we should be teaching our kids to be independent learners and then to be available to them to be their guide as opposed to their you know. That are working on that they come in and make their own lunches sometimes we'll do read-alouds or like listen to a book during lunch if everybody's all in the same we have an open play in kitchen and living room all in the same space together and then i'll put. My youngest three down for naps finish up homeschooling with my middle kids down check in on my older kids see if they need anything from me we do you as history with my teenagers they'll come in and they'll wait for me in the afternoons flip a load of laundry. Maybe sit down and read with some of the middle kids if they've got something they're reading to me or i'm reading like a read-aloud with them specifically because sometimes we have different routes going different age groups that are really things. Usually around 3:30 everybody's done with their work for sure usually before then but but for sure by then and we'll do group read-alouds and fold laundry that's my mom hack of the century i'm telling you that is awesome actually. Or watch you know since its ability or something like that in the background and now i read to my kids and they fold laundry and then they'll take the buses and put them away i'll start on dinner prep. And get dinner going we're usually eating around 6:00 6:30 somewhere around there so there's plenty of play time in their we haven't you know read out loud that entire time so they're out on the trampoline they're running in the front yard they're playing foursquare we don't do any screen time before 3:00 p.m.. And we have a penny reward system that they pay pennies for for their screen time yes they might get 15 or 30 minutes of something in the afternoons my littles are waking up from naps around this time so somewhere between 3:30 and 4:00 usually and they're running around and playing it's just you know kind of happy chaos for a while but just you know just energy energy we kind of really protect the dinner space we do that together four to five times a week and try not to schedule anything on top of that we don't have to or at least for not for long seasons maybe if we've got six weeks of soccer or something like that well but we don't keep it going all year round. And then a lot of times in the evenings we are either just hanging out together as a family we might watch an episode of all creatures great and small together and bedtime routines are short and sweet because we have read together played together again together so brush teeth give hugs and kisses get drinks go potty because very likely right before bed we've just read something again so i'm not going from room to room reading the kids the little bitty ones. I'll go to the four year olds room and sit with him and pray with him but we just don't know i mean homeschool moms are they have a lot of touch points with kids my older kids go to bed between 9:30 and 10:00 and they are up with us talking to us hanging out finishing their chores we have two cleaning times a day so i didn't mention that so right after breakfast. Yeah like literally. And then in the evenings my husband and i will read it or talk or. We used to watch shows and i just i can't stay awake anymore oh come on you're not that old is the level of. Oh my goodness well that is a full day morning till night it is go go go go when do you and your husband get quality time it sounds like at night you have a little bit do you sometimes go to your room and the older kids do their thing and. Does it work like that sometimes or. So people are always so scandalized which is hilarious to me because we're married and we have 10 kids shower together in the evenings so like we literally say. We're going to go take a shower we'll be back down and you know 20 minutes or whatever and so we built two houses together my husband is done like 90% of the framing while he's done all of the framing with his with his dad my father-in-law who is also very handy. And. And he has. Custom created everything for a house twice wow. Yeah he's amazing he's a software developer by trade but it's just. Very talented with his hands as well so definitely renaissance man and so we specifically planned for two shower heads in this current bill that were in that we've been in for 6 years cuz we were like this is where this kind of our sanctuary we can talk to each other. We would do it at home when we have little kids i would plan for. And then because he works from home he's in his office from 8 to 5:00 but if there's something i need to talk to him about i can definitely go tap on his door and see if we can have a quick. Discussion about something sometimes he comes out for lunch we don't see him at lunch every single day i would say probably maybe only once or twice a week at most. Because he's just kind of going on all this stuff. But i do feel like. We end up you know just. Just touching base at certain points and just having good conversations like this morning we had to go get an appointment done for our twin boys and we rode together because we have older kids that can. Be home with younger kids for a little while you know. And and they're very responsible at this point which again that's a whole new phase right that's good and marriage and so we are just riding in the car we didn't go do anything quote on quote special but we just like talking to each other so you know that felt like. That felt like a little date. Yes you guys still do the weekly thursday night dates to this day know that's so exciting do you go out more now that you have a lot of kids at home what are we doing exactly what are we all going to watch together like nothing. And we have we have structured it so that our older kids really enjoy date night too. So yes they're watching the little bitty kids for about an hour and a half we we head out between 5:30 and 6:00 and the little kids go to bed around 7:00 and on date nights they're usually going to bed a little bit later but on date nights at 7:00 7:30 is kind of the max and so they watched them for about an hour and a half and then they know that we're going to like keep ice cream in the fridge for the oh yes the ingredients for them to make something they make dinner that night but that's something they really enjoy like homemade pizza or and that they're going to get to watch. Usher we don't have just a wide range of approved shows but there's they're going to get to watch something and that's something to look forward to for them cuz that's kind of an unusual like oh we get to you. Play yeah that's so fun to make it like fun for them so everybody gets a little bit of an experience like time together okay switching gears cuz i want to get to your book i am almost done with it and it has been such an encouragement to me my journey to motherhood has been very unique and that my husband and i were married for 10 years we got married with the same kind of mindset you know just like whatever the lord has for us we're open to i'm from a big family i wanted a big family and god had very different plans for us so i had to learn how to surrender my dreams of motherhood of what i thought my life would look like of what i wanted or thought god had for me which was a big family to a decade of infertility and recurrent pregnancy loss and then god redirecting our path down the path of adoption adopting two boys from ukraine who we couldn't even speak english to and they were 10 in sick so we skipped the baby face all together and just got these older boys and it's been amazing but it's been such a journey and so i'm kind of like i'm a new mom i'm like almost two years old mom but with kids that are now 12 and 8:00 so it's been very exciting they can speak english now so we can talk which is awesome but your book has been such an encouragement to me and i have kind of a unique journey and so i know any woman like i said in the intro even if you're single. Why not get prepared why not plan ahead and start learning and growing and what it means to be a christ-like mother so. Everybody needs to go grab it but i want to hear from you m is for mama a rebellion against mediocre motherhood why did you write it. Oh goodness i think probably the biggest. Push to write that particular book. Came from this bit that i do every wednesday call what you want to know wednesday i do it on the social media and people submit questions. And. I just kept seeing these recurring themes of mom guilt and self-care and. Loss of identity and motherhood and what does the bible have to say it like is there anything useful in there for me like i don't know how you would find time to read your bible i'm so overwhelmed i'm so sleep-deprived you know it is the lord forgotten about me what about what about media how do i decide you know how do i how do i have the talk with my kids and so it became really evident. The current kind of narrative around motherhood was failing women that the cultural narrative that the way you're going to get through is wine and numbing your brain and complaining and venting and kind of. Kind of either coasting. Or sleeping through the release of motherhood netflixing your way through you know and just hoping that you can just hang on long enough to make it till hopefully they are self-sufficient enough to stop bothering you so much and and maybe that seems like an overstatement but if we watched very many memes on social media music run across a whole lot of things that are talking about how hey i gave my kid the middle finger behind my back today because. Is driving me bonkers anybody else and there seems to be almost this cry of. If someone will just validate how hard this is. Then it will make it better. Validation of negativity validation of how we're all in the pit together doesn't actually raise us out of the pit. In our in our relationship with christ is what does that ultimately and that bootstrapping our way and that. Striving for excellent motherhood in our own strength will always end and burn out and will always end in frustration and so. I wanted to say what does the bible have to say about this is there any hope there and boy i already knew there was but just in diving into these questions that were just repeated over and over again every week it became so evident that not only does scripture have an answer it has the answer so a lot of what you're seeing. In that book is coming straight from the mouths of women who were desperate for something more than just the stinks youtube same thing you know right so and i feel like that's what i'm calling mediocre not because i can't be mediocre mediocre without christ right because the concept of kind of going under with everybody hey look we're all in this together. It's not like someone saying hey just get up off the ground and do better you know it's. It's grace but also also do better that is enabled through the holy spirit's stren. Yes so well said early on in your book you talk about how relatability isn't the gold standard. For motherhood and those memes and i was just cracking up with what some of those things are like i see all of this what you're talking about on social media and i came across this article that's actually from last year but i wanted to get your take on it because this idea of like. We're just losing it as moms and we're just kind of losing our brains and we need to vent we need to let it out we're all in this together kind of mindset is so common is so popular even in a lot of christian circles and so i thought you would get a kick out of this and i kind of want to get your reaction to it so it's maybe you've heard of it but it was from the today show they wrote this article by chrissy callahan and the title is meet the moms who gather in a field to scream. Have you heard of this. Okay so just i'm going to read a short snippet. She said the article begins sometimes you just have to scream a little bit to feel better and that's exactly what one group of massachusetts moms is doing to release some stress on a recent january night sarah harmon a mental health therapist yoga teacher founder of school of mom gathered a group of local moms for a screaming session and a giant field that would muffle the sound. And she says i was educating them about anger and how to and how underneath anger there's so much more emotion their sadness there's anxiety there's fear there's resentment and they had a place to put it now. Harmon initially bought thought of the idea the screaming session casually while talking to clients and they loved it. So she planned the first event in march of last year. Recently her clients were hungry for more so harm implants another screaming session. And here's what they scream about so she said we all get together to let it out as moms and she leaves them through five rounds of screaming this is a real thing this is not a joke. Round one is regular screams. Round two is screaming profanity. Round three is a scream for all is a free screen so you just scream out. Round four is you scream in honor of everyone who wasn't available to come that night to scream. So which mom can scream the loudest and the article concluded hopefully this message is for people to give them permission to let it all out. What's your take on that. I think that that makes sense from a perspective. Temporal hope. Needing something as a fix. I think there's a whole chapter called the journalist challenge where i talked about the addictive nature of anger. And how the more that we quote let it all out. The better we feel momentarily because it's almost like a dopamine high or it isn't almost it actually is. Sometimes anger can raise our serotonin levels and make us feel empowered and like we have just done something really brave you know and and really effective. And then. Probably most moms can relate to that crash afterwards when we. Experience just that because they haven't screamed at someone in rage. The bible tells us in ephesians 4:29 to let no one wholesome talk come out of our mouths. That we are not to engage with. That's as christian wives and moms and. Friends and sisters and sojourners with christ that we are not to have blessing and cursing coming out of the same mouth. And so while i wouldn't expect a secular mom necessarily to relate to that. We are called to something more. And the good thing is that we are called to something that never runs dry we are called to the well of living water in jesus to which we can return daily but it doesn't ever. End up being a fix it is constantly they are constantly available to us we don't have to go stand in some field and scream your head yes we have the holy spirit inside of us at any given moment who actually gives us the ability to physically. If need be and and in the gentleness challenge chapter. I talked about the concept that the more i bit my tongue not the more i let myself loose the more i realized that my emotions were coming under the lordship of jesus christ and i was actually feeling less and less frustrated. I guess my response to that is while i understand. The the appeal. Of the release i understand the appeal of the immediate relief and feeling like you can't take it anymore and you're under too much pressure and you have to explode. Don't think it's the ultimate answer. Yeah and we all anyone listening me included we've had those moments where we just feel like screaming like this is going to be the answer this is going to just get it all out of there but it's not a long-term solution and it's definitely not getting after the heart and it's obviously not what we see in scripture so how can we as moms and i'm thinking of a lot of young moms new moms who are listening how can we become moms who aren't listening to this rhetoric from culture who aren't reading these articles and thinking oh that sounds like a pretty good idea but rather going to scripture going to god's word and being moms who are looking for truth in scripture to guide our feelings guide our thoughts guide how we parent is mom's everyday. I think one of the things that we have to be honest with ourselves about is how we're spending our time. Social media is so addictive. And it is so available we can hold it in the palms of our hands so i always encourage moms if you find yourself. Going back over and over again to accounts that are leading you down a path of discontentment of anger of negativity of that mindset of i am entitled to vent at any moment of any day because this is this is just too much of the mindset of i can do all things through christ who strengthens me which is one of the most. Misuse verses in the bible but what it's telling you that you can do is you can have contentment and every circumstance. Whether your newborn is sleeping or whether they wake up 15 times a night as in a mom as a mom to two sets of twins i literally had my last set of twins waking up sometimes on opposite schedules five times each and. And yet. Even though i didn't love that part. As someone who had done it so many times. The lord gave me so much supernatural just kind of. Contentment in that again i don't want to i don't want to sugarcoat things because man. Has my child waking up in the middle of night made me really angry sometimes really just yes ready don't you understand i have to get up and do this whole day of course they don't understand and they don't care he's been interested in your convenience for your arrest and that can feel so personal sometimes. But i think we have to be i think we have to be honest about how we're spending our time and who were letting influence us and say. This feels good in the moment but ultimately is really unfruitful and unhelpful in the long run and i need to unfollow these people. I need to put my phone in the other room and let it charge so that i'm not constantly going back to it like a moth to a flame that's getting burned up. I need to do practical things like. Have lara bars close by or apples or something or protein shake so that when i feel myself starting getting starting to get jittery in the middle of math and my blood sugar is dropping. But instead i go to the pantry i closed the door for 2 minutes and i eat my alarm bar and i returned to sanity. You know i just really practical stuff. Come out of your mouth and think. That applies to me not just to my. And i'm going to literally. Bite my tongue and i will be so grateful in 10 minutes that i did not passive aggressively call them out or say something really unkind and sarcastic because i won't have to repent of it and then. When we have gotten to the point of losing our call we need to be willing to apologize. Like i think there is so much joy and sweetness that can come from being vulnerable and honest with our kids and saying hey i messed up. But the lord is gracious to forgive me will you do the same you know i think we can learn a whole lot. From our imperfections in how much the father loves us and is so ready and willing to forgive us for them just renewing your mind it's just renewing our mind daily with truth you had on a very hot button topic you mentioned it earlier but i know people are going to want to hear more about this and i really appreciated your section on this in the book but you talk about self-care which is a very popular very trendy phrase and its really pushed on moms i feel like a lot to say you need this you must have this and it must look like this you deserve this you're entitled to this if you don't get it you should be mad and you talk about self-care versus soul care can you unpack that for us. Yeah sure so i feel like exactly what you just said. Is part of the reason why moms feel. Like they are getting the raw end of the deal. When you were told. This is a list of things that you should be getting. And yet you are in a season of life where many of those things are not reasonable expectations at least on a regular basis whether it's pedicures or wine nights with girlfriends or uninterrupted time to watch your show or eating without someone sitting on you and taking all your food like even some basic life you know necessities. You you start to resent. The very source of that deprivation. Seeing it for what it is as the opportunity to grow we say all the time. If i mean probably heard that somewhere. If you ask for patience what's going to happen and i told him all the time. You told me you wanted to get better at this. So here's an opportunity to practice so you have to ask ourselves. Do i want. A pedicure. Do i want a pedicure more than i want to be holy. That is close to home for me because i love a good pedicure for me right this is not about right this is not about facials this is not about naps this is not about. Watching an episode of something. It is about our heart attitude and whether we feel like we have a right like you said to be angry if that opportunity is snatched from us by are inconvenient children yes exactly these kids that keep getting in my way please just leave me alone right. How many times have we as moms if we're being honest and if we're being in tune with the holy spirit. Taking those times when we were so disappointed that we didn't get to do that thing i mean think about that weekend away with your husband that somebody started puking right before you were supposed to leave. And it is so hard not to be personally offended by the nerve of the shopkins stomach bug and puking on your cute outfit and you can go anywhere like what it's ruined it's all gone. You have you have choices. Almost an obligation to be bitter about this and that that will help us because it's honest right. And we actually do always have a choice. We have the opportunity to take the narrow path of choosing to be content in all circumstances because i can do all things through christ who strengthens me because that's what that verse is actually saying and saying how do i turn this weekend around that was going to be this amazing get away with my husband that i've been waiting for for 6 months and instead serve my family and be the hands and feet of jesus be jesus with a towel around his waist washing the disciples feet and and actually find joy in it i don't think we can in our own strength but if you're looking for. Past self care which is not in and of itself an evil wrong awful thing and we definitely do need breaks and when we have them presented to us we need to like kick mom guilt to the curb and say yes i will go to. This is a fantastic opportunity i'm not going to feel guilty about this thank you so much because i think that we can definitely tip that direction to where there's this thing that we pile on our shoulders as if there is something evil about ever being away from our kids ever taking a moment we see so many examples of jesus taking opportunities to rest. And that is good. And the lord has made it clear that our rest in him is so important but we also see that when jesus rest was interrupted that he did not react with anger and that he did not react with feelings of entitlement and irritation instead he welcomed people in and i'm sure sometimes it was like. Okay you know i was hoping for another day with i mean he's sovereign he's good he's omnipotent and he knows everything i know that but from a human perspective i'm sure there were times that he was hoping for another hour or two without using somebody and yet his response was so gracious and we use that as our model not the model of the world which says yes jesus talk about an incredible example. That's so good okay we don't have very much time left but i want to get to another hot button topic which is something that i think many of us wrestle with this feeling of we need to have an identity that is greater and bigger and better than the identity of motherhood or the season of motherhood and i i've talked to so many women i feel this tension in myself and friends that i talk to of you know well i'm just a mom you know if you don't have any other career outside work like i'm just a mom and it's almost like. It's not enough you're kind of a loser if you're just a mom and so can we talk about this for a second because in your book you talk about motherhood as a profession and i love the way that you phrase this and in your book you were even like you know i'm probably going to offend some people when i say this but i just want to read a quote from the book you said. If you are already a mother. During your primary season of mothering can trump that of your job as a mama. Why because nothing else has the potential to impact the everlasting souls of the precious humans who have been entrusted to you and to no one else. I mean the impact is literally eternal not only because our children. Have eternal souls. But because they have a generational outpouring that we are just planning seats for right and so i was so convicted and so i started wearing this em around my neck just as a reminder that know this is not your only identity this is not the highest calling in the world this is not more sanctified in holy than being single then maybe i think that we can actually tip into that and start is actually the best calling that there is it's like the pinnacle of the female christian but it's not yeah. Butt. If you are already a mother. Then the lord has made it very clear that whatever you do. Whether you mother whether you're single whether you eat or drink whether you you know have a full loan profession or a side job you are to do it all. Eyes unto the lord to the glory of god. And when we start shunting aside motherhood as a. Just kind of thing instead of looking at it with the same error of excellence that we would. High school spanish or fitness instructor. Or blogging. Or being a pharmacist or you know whatever it is being a baker or whatever that we would find our identity in elsewise we are missing an incredible opportunity to do something as unto the lord. And we are probably not treating it with a kind of professional excellence that we would if we were getting a paycheck. But really ultimately as into the lord doesn't mean as into a paycheck. It means as on to a well-done good and faithful servant which is i mean immeasurably. More precious than any amount of dollar signs that it could ever be on a check and. We have to remind ourselves of this because the world is telling us the exact opposite the world the world is saying unless you have this you know. This amount of letters at the end of your name or you're a this and there's about five things and then you're a mom kind of thing. Unless you have made sure to make your mark on society in some way other than the children that you will bring into it. You are not valid you are laughable kind of your your demeaned in some way and it's easy to think of ourselves that way now there will be someone watching this that's like but you write books and you're on a podcast and you have a blog and notice i didn't say anything was wrong. But i will say this. I had wanted to publish a book since i was a little bitty like 7 8 years old writing has always been my passion i've always wanted to be an author i'm not even a big dreamer but that would be the dream of my heart that never went away and i had pretty much resigned myself. To only fitting in blogging or an hour here of fitness or whatever in between all of those things that i tell you that i do in a day with my kids. I come to a place of contentment with that. 37 years old and that was the moment when god decided to send me a publisher. Calling you for 3 years. I relate to so much of what you say if you ever considered writing a book and i'm like if i ever considered you. And then. He gave me 20/20 at home pregnant with twins that i was not expecting to have to write that book so tell me about. His timing his ways not the most convenient way i would have chosen to do it and yet. And yet he worked it out. For seasons being so important in motherhood for recognizing that if you are a mom of two young children that take up all your time and you're looking at a mom of 10 who has older kids who are helpful who has a mom that can help who has systems in place that maybe you don't have yet who has figured out schedules and ways of working things that she wouldn't have been able to finagle when she had five kids six and under there was no hope of my writing a book at that point and it wasn't the right timing the lord made that clear. You know apples to screwdrivers if you have to you have to recognize that the lord is the author every good and perfect gift comes from him. So while i see this ability to write this book now. And i have another one coming out in the fall to write any more books as a good gift from him i also see that he has grown my time management he has grown my discipline he has grown my affection for my family and my devotion to creating systems that work well. All glory and boasting in christ because yes i know that i couldn't have just engineered this on my own without causing my family a lot of grief whereas now my husband is very on board very encouraging loves my ministry and yet we both agree that it takes second third. Fourth seat to the primary calling that i have right now in raising all of these souls for his kingdom. That's so encouraging to get a peek behind the scenes into your life cuz i know people do wonder like oh look at you you're doing all these other things but it's in it's in the right order and in the right season and that's so important to not take a snapshot of another mom and go but look. Cuz you don't know what's really going on behind the scenes okay as we wrap things up can you expand just a little bit more into. You touched on a little bit motherhood as a profession but in the sense of how can we pour how can i how can all of my peers how can we as young moms poor our time into focusing on motherhood as a profession as we would anything else any other sort of career or job where we want to do it with excellence we want our boss to be proud of us we want to make a mark but then when it comes to to mothering at home it's kind of like you know we give it our last ditch effort like our worst we would never do that in the workplace so how can you shift our mindset to view our home more like we would a career. Well it comes down to how badly you want to feel successful as a mother. And how badly you want to honor god and how you mother if you feel that call for it to be something that you take just as seriously as you would any other profession you i encourage you to pray about and to write down the kinds of things that you would like to improve in. I wish. Meal planning and things like. Habit training for patience and diligence in making our beds in the morning and flipping the laundry every single day. I hear from so many moms who are like no one ever taught me to have these good habits and i feel like i'm drowning i feel like i'm starting from ground zero and it's so frustrating because guess what it makes me feel like a failure and which of us wants to feel like a failure in any area and yet we're bound to if we aren't equipped to do this giant job well so read books follow people who are exhorting you and giving you practical tips. You know take the time to write down your goals and pray over them and ask the lord where the priority should be and then actually take them seriously just like you would if they were goals in the workplace that you were going to get an add a girl and an employee of the month and a pay raise for i think that that's so good. That's where. That's where the growth happens. As long as we're relying on the lord's strength because i think we can grow in the habits. But but lose the heart of it really easily unless for like jesus i can't do this without you i'm not enough. Yes amen and it sounds like my last question was just going to be how can we intentionally make choices to reject mediocre motherhood and pursue a gospel center christ-centered view of motherhood just in our day-to-day life. I think that without scripture you can't and so people get really overwhelmed by studying their bibles they get really overwhelmed by maybe not understanding maybe not being interested afraid that it won't speak to them and they tell me they just cannot spend time on it and yet they find 30 minutes for tick tock every single day. From start to finish i really don't have time. I do a lot of bible reading with babies in my lap i don't think that we should be adhering to this concept of this instagram worthy quiet time where you know the candle and the soft music and the the coffee is really hot and i don't even drink coffee but you know. And that that should be our ideal instead we are expecting to jesus with our fingernails and if we want him bad enough he hasn't gone anywhere analogy i think of this image of this guy driving in the truck and the girls sat beside him right when they were dead oh yes yes yes and then years later on the other side of the truck and upset that they're not as close and he said i never moved that's the word. She is there besides he is offering us grace he is offering us discipline he is off because it says that he disciplines those that he loves he disciplines every son and daughter that he loves and so. When we feel that sting of conviction it's so important not to run from it and to lean into the heart cuz heart is not the same thing as bad and he will grow us through it he will grow our desire for him he will grow our ability to study you may start with 10 minutes. Biblical illiteracy is a huge huge epidemic. Go to god's word is why i included almost 200 scriptures and ms for mama because i wanted it to be not my words but the lord's words primarily. Yes and i left at the end of every chapter how you had that kind of that comparison. Each time to say like okay well this is what worldly motherhood looks like mediocre motherhood essentially and then this is what christ centered motherhood looks like just that snapshot to make it really easy for us to just have that nugget that we walk away with and the scripture and the prayers and yeah you did a great job thank you for writing this book you guys go grab a copy of m is for mama get it on audiobook just listen to it read it. If you were encouraged by this conversation then abby's book takes a deep dive into everything we talked about plus i had a whole list of other questions we didn't get to and everything is just in the books so go grab it abbey where can people find your book i'm guessing it's available everywhere and how can people connect with you. And i actually just started a podcast about a month ago so you can just search the image from on the podcast as well yay okay i didn't know that you started a podcast so you mentioned it earlier in our conversation i was like okay i'm going to check that out as soon as we get off of this conversation so thank you so much for your time for your wisdom for writing this book launching the podcast just encouraging mom's everywhere to pursue chrysler mother and i am so thankful for it. Oh you're so welcome praise be to god wow what an amazing perspective on motherhood that abby has my mind is still blown just thinking about how she goes about her day and and how she's so intentional. With 10 kids like and two sets of twins i don't know about you but my mind is like like so many times like so many things that she was saying i've just got my two boys and you know every day when we finish and things went well i'm like what a success and i'm just like praying the next day is good but so much wisdom i just appreciate that lady so much and i know you will love her book guys like there was so many questions i couldn't get into where she she gets into the nitty-gritty of like how she trains her kids how she encourages them to be a blessing she had mentioned the penny system early on in our conversation in her book she unpacks that penny system for like reward or consequences and it's actually really creative and great for like if you have one kid or 10 kids just seems like a really easy great system i'm considering it actually applying it to my kids i think they might enjoy it as well. And she just gets into a lot of the specifics you know how to have the birds and the bees talk with your kiddos like all sorts of stuff in her book that we could not touch on today so grab a copy of her book i miss from mama i think you'll find it really encouraging and then again if you are like man i this is amazing like god has so much wisdom for motherhood but i don't even know if i have that foundation for womanhood like understanding my womanhood and my identity as a god to find woman i think i'm even missing that then you will love reading girl to find god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity so definitely grab a copy of that to amazon on her website girl to find.com i think you'll find so much encouragement and just life-changing truth as you understand to reframe your perspective of all things identity femininity beauty worth value purpose success. From a biblical foundation everything else in your life will be we'll just come from that right way of thinking according to god's word. And these kind of conversations will you please let us know let us know in the best way to do that is by saying yes give us a fist bump by dropping a five-star review on spotify on apple we see those reviews it really helps our show reach more women and it encourages us personally you know day in and day out as we're finding these guests arranging these episodes doing the research reading the books trying to bring incredible content to you you know it takes a couple seconds like maybe 30 45 seconds to drop a five-star review leave a few comments and it is a huge encouragement to us so would you even right now take that quick second to go to spotify or apple and do that if you can mean so much guys and then come hang out with us we want to get to know you we want to be a community of women walking alongside one another like linking arms in this journey to pursue god so come hang out with us over on instagram that's the primary place where we hang out have conversation in iraq we try to respond to. All dms if possible that's our goal if we haven't responded to you yet be patient or send us another one bump it back up so we can see it but we want to respond and engage over on instagram at girl defined so come hang out with us there and let's keep this conversation about motherhood going. 