Menstruation and i'm laughing because this is such an interesting conversation and something that we've never directly talked about here on the girl to find podcast but it's a conversation that needs to happen because 50% of the population us as women experience periods. On a regular basis write most of us on a monthly basis and if you average that out. Something that affects all of us and i think something that most of us is women have more of a negative perspective on we view it as that pesky thing that rolls around once a month and we're like it's here again. But in today's conversation we're actually going to take a deeper more spiritual more theological look at our periods as women something that i don't think i've ever really done and i have a guest today who is an expert in this area rachel jones in fact she wrote a book on this topic if you can believe it and her book is titled a brief theology of periods yes really so i hope that intrigues you and i hope you'll stick around because i think for us as christian women specifically. In this day and age especially in this climate where we are being told that we're nothing more than bleeding people menstruating people i mean crazy terms we need to understand god's design. For are we production for our cycles for our periods and the significance that that has and how that should impact our view of our womanhood or view of god it's not insignificant and in fact god's word has things to say about this so we're going to dig into all of that today on the girl to find show. Rachel thanks for having this conversation with me. Thank you so much for inviting me i'm excited to be here. Okay i just have to ask you right off the bat. How in the world did. Get interested in writing a book on periods i mean that is something most people it would never even cross their mind it's never crossed my mind or a ministry for christian women. How in the world did you get inspired to write a book on periods. What is a whole bunch of reasons really that came together i mean firstly i have periods i've always been curious you know what what's with that. And i've written a blog you know a few years before called a 5-minute theology of periods and even even several years later. That was continuing to get good traffic so it was clear that other people were curious too. And then and then just a couple of other situations you know i had a i had a really dear friend who at the time was. Wrestling with endometriosis. And i'm just the way that her cycle was falling she was she went through this phase where she was missing one sunday in four. Because her periods were that bad. And so you know this this topic of menstrual health and periods it was it was so relevant to her and it was so shaping her. Christian walk. And yet you know that wasn't a thing that she felt she could share openly our community group you know it wasn't a thing that. She was going to hear addressed from the front of church but you know it was something that was was really shaping her experience of the christian life and which i wanted to to speak into. And then kind of more broadly you know. You know tons of articles and books and listen to podcasts you know from a secular perspective. Trying to reclaim an educate about periods. And yeah much of that doing good stuff. But nothing we we read or listen to kind of. Intersects with the christian worldview in a really black and white all or nothing way and so we you know we need to we need to learn how to think biblical about about all of these things including periods. I love that and you're so right when i think about the resources that are out there that are available in this particular genre if you will. The list is pretty short and so it sounds like you were stepping into a space that. Biblical lens is that kind of what you found as you stepped into it. Yeah definitely i mean i work as an editor as my day job doing acquisitions and yeah so i read a lot of book proposals. I had never. Yeah no one had ever proposed this maybe for a reason so i thought i would i would do it i would do it myself. That's very bold very courageous did you as you were researching and writing this book were there things that you were learning in the process to where you're like whoa. Vague. It was like wow like. This whole system is kind of working. Inside my body i'm not really thinking about it you know be on the obvious i'm not really. You know telling it what to do and yet you know my body is working away each month. You know these hormones kind of rise and fall and sort of talk to each other and. You know create these powerful effects and just being just being bored away by. By the the designs this of our bodies it is just. Incredible yeah so it was it was fun to look into the science have a have a refresh on that. And yeah and i just kind of thinking. About the whole bible story and how that. I'm kind of. Of embodiment and female and body meant. Yeah it was it was a wonderful project. I have to be honest with you. I'm excited for this conversation on a personal level because my period has been somewhat painful throughout my womanhood in fact it was really painful early on and it wasn't. It wasn't to the point where i had to miss entire days of things but you know i was taking a lot of ibuprofen and just. Heating pads and just trying to survive every time my period would hit and so i think for me just the pain of my period gave me a very negative view of my period like oh this is painful this is bad there's nothing good that comes from this you know you know i'm just feeling that in those moments when i'm feeling all that pain by god's grace and thankfully i my period is so much better now just in just from lifestyle changes changing the way i eat my health exercise and i did discover that i had a small trace of endometriosis so you know working to manage that i just my periods are so much better now but i think for a lot of women they probably feel similar to me and not whether they have a lot of period pain or not it's kind of viewed as this annoying thing that just hits us every month and interrupts our plans and interrupts you know summer time if you're like oh period so why do you think across the spectrum there is someone more of a negative you is it just the pain of the period or is there more behind that. And you know and i think as well you know for a lot of women there's a lot of emotional. Hurt tied up with the you know women facing fertility. Struggles you know maybe maybe with unchosen singleness and you can kind of feel like that biological clock ticking in a very vivid way. So yeah definitely there's lots of different. Lots of different angles in which in which kind of periods may be. Maybe negative. But you're going to help us see why they're saying yes definitely definitely i think around this whole area of our lives and like i said in the intro it is an area that the world is taking. Redefining and distorting and saying that no it's actually not 50% of the population that has periods in fact anyone can have a period you know if a biological male says he's a female then somehow this can be his reality too when we're all just supposed to cheer that on. So it's just what we're facing even culturally in our society and our world today is kind of next level and so i think as christian women it's crucial more now than ever for us to have a biblical understanding of our design as females and our period is a super important part of that so there's worldview issues that are at stake here and it's something that we all need to dig into. Where do we see. Period in the bible help me understand that. There's a few places this is really fun story in genesis that's kind of tucked away where rachel she kind of steals her dad's household guards. And then when labor and comes to look for his guards she sat there on this kind of saddle and she says oh sorry i can't get up i'm on my period. The time of woman is upon me or like some yeah. Yeah yeah you know when my husband needs me to do something like i'm sorry honey. But i mean more kind of more majorly i suppose this in the levitical. Lowe's you've got laws around. Kind of regulating her behavior there. Which i was just thinking about this today you know in terms of word count of the whole of scripture is actually quite you know it's just one chapter in leviticus. But in terms of like an impact on on people's lives kind of month after month generation of after generation. You know it was pretty big in terms of kind of lived in packed. But then you know a whole load of kind of related stuff around childbirth. Childbearing kind of embodiments. What is to experience the world in a human body all lights kind of feeding into it and then one of my favorite books of the book to write was there at the end i kind of. In the outro kind of trace the theme of of blood through the bible which obviously the scripture says a lot about blood and you know just reflecting how. In the 21st century we don't see a lot of blood. You know people in the old testament would have seen a way more blood on the day-to-day basis. And you know menstruating women we kind of have this. Yeah that's kind of vivid reminder of the kind of gritty realness. Of some of that some of that imagery in the bible. When you talk about and we've all heard this in the old testament to talk about women being unclean. Weather on their periods can you shut a little light on what was going on historically and the context behind that. Yeah so we've got god's people in the old testament they've been rescued from egypt. I'm not that being given. The law and yeah you get you get this chapter where it basically says while a woman is on her period she's going to be unclean which you know to modern air is. Sounds really offensive you know and you and you read that and you're like god you just hate women like what what is that you know. And it's and it's so you know rubs up against everything you know every way we like to think about. Ourselves in the 21st century. So yeah you know i think those those verses are kind of easy to. To well the difficult to read and easy to misread. So you know it's helpful to kind of remember that uncleanness in the old testament. Guilt it's not that you're you're guilty for being unclean it's kind of a different. A different category and even like good god-given things make you unclean sometimes even you know sex and childbirth. Make you unclean and those are those are things that god has blessed and and you know called humans to do. So there's definitely more kind of going on there than meets the eye. Is it more of an unclean from like a sanitary perspective and a health perspective versus like a sole perspective. Yeah that's different ways of reading it i mean. Yeah i mean i'd like a few days off on my period you know stay home maybe take it easy some some aspects of that. But there's definitely like a sort of biblical imagery around playing this and unclean. Especially when you get to the food laws there's definitely a sense of of it sort of representing this separation between. God's people the jewish people who've been made clean and the gentiles around them. Who's there not to mingle with. And yet you got this sense that even even for the jewish people they just can't do normal life without. I'm getting on clean sometimes. I'm i'm not kind of speaks to i think sort of. The pervasiveness of of the fallen human condition you know it's not. You know you can't you just you can't live in this world without being affected by. You know the problem of sin even even you know even when it's not. So there's definitely a lot of. A lot of imagery there and of course you know we want to read leviticus in in the context of the whole bible. And the bible's message as a whole and i think. You know definitely. The christian message is is one that freezes from shane isn't it and it frees us from. The the law that we can't keep and yeah it's beautiful beautiful new testament pastors around there. Yeah and from the old testament to the new testament you don't see the same emphasis. On cleanliness as far as a woman and her menstrual cycle so what's the difference there the distinction from old testament new testament and why is that not something that as modern christians were like. Kind of. Fulfilling the ceremonial laws so that's why we you know he to fulfills all. All foods clean you know that the temple curtains into when jesus died on the cross because there's going to be no more sacrifices needed. But more specifically you get this beautiful story in in mark 5 i think it is. What does this woman with this condition this bleeding condition some kind of permanent menstrual bleeding we don't really know exactly what. And she's the one who who who hears that jesus is in town. And she's been bleeding for 12 years and she kind of comes up. Behind him thinking if i could just touch the edge of his cloak. Overhills and so she she reaches out and touches jesus. And she is healed i'm not just a beautiful picture of you know jesus. Is power. To redeem us but also the way that then he stops. And you know he he could have he could have kept walking he could have let her sort of leave quietly but he doesn't he he wants to publicly restore her. I'm probably the united states to her daughter your faith is healed you. Go in peace and you know that's the. That's the kind of complete opposite isn't it that's the that's the full restoration. I'm no longer unclean but. Yeah treasured and and restored to community. That story is so beautiful just thinking of what that woman was suffering with like. And how in that culture that would have just been. Probably so shameful so embarrassing so unclean and for her to have that kind of courage like to go to jesus in the midst of the crowds and like to reach out to touch him like trusting that that would be enough that his power could heal her like and then jesus is compassion on this woman and his care for her like it's just. Incredible so we see glimpses we see little pictures of periods in the bible obviously there are no direct passages giving us new testament instructions women on this so when you talk about having a biblical worldview or a biblical lens as christian women and how we view our periods what do you mean because i'm sure to some people that sounds kind of funny like. A biblical worldview about my period like what. Is genesis you know that kind of tells us so much about what it is to human. And yeah this idea that our bodies are good that they've been created good by god. I'm on our body is a fundamental to who we are. The the male and female is kind of fundamental to be in cuban. You know he makes the male and female and then he tells them to. You know phil the earth and as you know that's that's kind of physical sex childbirth child rearing you know fill the earth with with more and more image bearers and so you know i think we can. Rejoice in in kind of having that capability i'm single i don't have children but you know i can still can still. Rejoicing in in that gift. In my church family and you know. Take joy and anna firm that as a as a good. God given gift. And yet we also see you know genesis 3 tells us so much about. What's gone wrong and and you get that very very particular again another really hard to hear. Word from the lord about pain in childbearing. So you've got this you know this this beautiful thing that women can do and yet it's you know it's one of the most badly broken things. And you know you know with that comes all the all the pain. Olivia and also you know i think. As an extension of that i don't think it's. I'm sad to say you know the monthly pain of periods. The emotional toll of the carnival. Pot and parcel of that and then. Yeah but the but the you know but the biblical worldview it tells us why the world has gone wrong. It tells us. That's that the world is going to go right one day. Collectively and anna's individuals. Going to come and raise our bodies to new life you know you get that hole. The whole movie from start to finish. And yeah he's he's going to. Like the tears from my eyes and give us give us bodies that don't. Go wrong and don't have painful periods and you know fulfill. Fulfill everything that we've longed for in this life. And so yeah seeing seeing a moment now with our with. Choice and also the struggles. In the light of that storyline. Is is really helpful. Wow that is so beautiful what a gospel picture just the way you were describing in your singleness how your periods remind you of god's design for women his gift of giving women the ability to get pregnant have children doesn't mean every woman will or can i have my own journey of infertility still on it very much my husband and i just celebrated 12 years of marriage this past week. I'm still to this day i have not been able to have biological children god is gifted us to amazing voice through adoption which that's been the biggest gift and blessing of my life in so many ways but still there's a lot of not just physical pain but even emotional pain for me over the years of having to work through. It it was hard for me to keep my focus on viewing my period in a positive light from the pain and the infertility but the way you just described it there's so much redemption in that because it's not just sitting in this moment of this pain or if you're single longing for marriage and your periods that remind her of well i'm not even married and so i can even start a family you know biblically like i just it's just reminding me every month of this longing i have that's unfulfilled. Pass this moment and having that long-term picture of yes there is brokenness there is longings there is there are unfulfilled longings that we have prayers that we pray every month but ultimately our hope is in the lord and one day he's going to come back and make all things new and the pain that we feel this side of heaven isn't going to last forever so just the way you described that i hope that anyone listening who's in a similar situation is me and fertility long user even single miss like you can see a bigger more redemptive picture. Yeah i'm i'm in the now as well if that's the other the thing i really enjoyed exploring. Is you know you get in genesis 1 this command to kind of go fill the earth and subdue it. That's very physical and in the old testament you know it the people of israel they grow through childbearing. But in the new testament things change and you know jesus says go and make disciples. And you know that's the thing that that we're all called to do and we we have we best spiritual children and grow spiritual life. And you know that's that's that's the thing that that that that the spirit. How is everyone every believer to to be part of and so that's that's another really. Wonderful part of being in that that that that new covenant being part of the church and being part of that family and definitely means a lot to me. There's so much hope in that and you're right like as christians that is our first calling. We are disciples of christ first and and within our womanhood that's our first and foremost like the great commission you know go into all the world make disciples baptizing them that is something everyone can do regardless of her age stage or season and that is something that also has given me a lot of hope because before we adopted our boys and before i was experiencing the gift of just motherhood on this earth i remember going through times where i was really struggling and with my infertility really struggling with feeling like my womanhood would not be complete unless i was able to get pregnant bear physical children i just felt like there was always going to be this whole this emptiness and it wasn't until god really worked on my heart and helped me to see that my priorities were out of line that i was elevating something that is going to be beautiful which is marriage and family and children beautiful gifts that we see in scripture but it's not the highest calling it's not the ultimate thing that i'm called to as a christian woman. Disciples to to raise up spiritual children and when my perspective changed and i saw that it brought so much hope to me cuz i'm like oh i may not be able to bear physical children but i can bear a spiritual children and the sense of making disciples for the next generation so it sounds like for you that's brought a lot of hope as well. Yeah definitely. Oh that's so good okay so something that i think is we talked about this a little bit earlier but i want to unpack it a little bit more i know you do in your book is this idea of shame and embarrassment around our periods why do you think there is so much shame and embarrassment. Yeah i mean i think. Genesis where it says adam and eve they're in the garden and they're naked and they feel no shame. And you know that shows us that that all the shame we feel is kind of a consequence of living in a fallen world in living in this world that's. Under the consequences of sin. And and so. Yeah i think i think it's good to acknowledge that that shame is real i remember like speaking to a friend about about periods and. Remembering back what it was like and you know she was just talking about the shame and the embarrassment of kind of. Where is the conversation that she remembered that the periods were physically painful. You know that has kind of like left her memory. But it was the it was the shame that had stayed. With her it was the shame that was kind of most. Powerful for her. It's powerful. Emotion. And yet you know again that that jesus jesus was about woman you know and the way he could have. He could have. Not drawn attention to her you know that's that's that's that's the interesting thing you know you might think oh you know what. The good things to do for that woman would have just been you know that her let her go quietly. And yet he he doesn't do that he chooses to to stop. And publicly restore and commend her. Because jesus came to free us from shame you know he came to. Freeze from the shame that we kind of. Rightly autofill for our sin but also free from all the same that that isn't you know isn't. Due to us you know there's there's such a mixture of both those things in us and on there. So ya again just a really beautiful picture of. Of jesus's compassionate. Response to our shame and his promise to. To restore us. You mentioned earlier period. The period pain was maybe i don't know increased after the fall of genesis 3 where we see that specific consequence for eve to have more pain in childbearing. Increased at that time but before you answer that my other part of this question is. We had periods. Well i don't know i don't know that's really interesting question and it kind of it gets to one of the tensions. The hours encountering. At 3:23 scripture is that. You know our periods this positive thing of this negative thing and yeah there's there's different ways this kind of different ways of reading it. You know. You're not pregnant and so. You know maybe maybe before the fall it was just like permanently fertile maybe you know she would have just immediately conceived maybe i don't know we don't know really. But you also get some. Throughout the old testament that there's something significant about blood. Particularly you know the life of a creature is in the bloods. And so that's something that's something yeah significant or symbolic. About this this this this this shedding of blood. So yeah it's definitely yeah i wouldn't i wouldn't know it wouldn't be as safe sure either way. But definitely i think the sort of. They were already having sex like. It to me it makes sense that she would have already like her reproductive like everything would have been working and functioning as normal but then maybe after the fall the pain was increased the period pain and i don't know. I don't know either the devil doesn't tell us directly but it is i don't know it's a rabbit hole rabbit trail for sure it's just interesting to think about so. As we kind of wrap this up. Ask christian women when are periods. Endometriosis different things that cause our periods to not happen or be a regular various health conditions but. If a woman is experiencing a period on a regular basis and maybe feels very negative about it maybe only use it as a negative thing how can we reframe our mindset as christian women on a month-to-month basis and have a more. Bigger picture like christ center gospel picture when it comes to that month-to-month. Period. I think we can. Rejoice in what it is to be creatures i think we can. Rejoice and what it is to have a body even even obviously in those times we wish we didn't have this particular body. But also i think you know it teaches us. Dependence and like they're often occasions when we sort of. Learn our own weakness you know like even even just a few weeks ago i've had a week's vacation i came back to work. I was in the office i came on my period and like honestly i was i was vile that day i was so grumpy. You know i wanted to be back on vacation and i didn't want to be like period. On my pool boss like you know he didn't know but i was you know it was just. Yeah it kind of has the ability sometimes to kind of dialing up. All temptation or dialing up those kind of struggles. In in a way that you know helps us to see them for what they are you know and it helps us to. That that shows what is really underneath the hood all along all month round and i think that's. That's an opportunity to to grow independence on the lord to. You know take hold of the spiritual resources that he promises to give us. To you know and to kind of commit. A fresh in our kind of in a bottle and i walk with him. Yeah. But also you know it's a chance to. And and hear those words of hope. And you know sometimes we. I wish we didn't eat yet another opportunity but you know god she's got jesus to work. So you're right though there is a sense of sanctification happening. Through the trials of our periods that reminder of god's greater. Leaning into his comfort for me something that he is continually growing me in is not viewing my period as an excuse to become a rage monster right with my family my you know all my hormones like just excusing it and i know many women many friends i've talked to they're like oh like i got is really working on my heart in the same way because i think there is this kind of mindset in culture that when a woman was on her period it's like do not mess with her you know whatever she says goes and she can almost like be excused to just pretty much become an increased monster and everyone just back away you know back away and let her do her thing but as christian women. Even when we're on our periods we are still called to. Live out the fruits of the spirit by god's grace to respond gently and patiently with those in our lives to do everything without complaining and grumbling in our hearts like. It's a squeeze because our hormones feel wacky for many of us there's pain we just feel exhausted and so i think you're right like there is work that god wants to do to say even in this moment even in this monthly trial if you will i am still god and i am still working and you are still my follower you are still my child and they're still. There's still a way for you to follow me to be obedient to me to exemplify christ to those around you even while you're on your period and i think most of us will raise a hand and say i need god's help. 4567 days like i needed his help immensely because it's not easy but by his grace i know we can still. I have to ask you this question before i let you go. Like we talked about in the beginning culturally. The world is now for the most part saying that anyone can have a period. How would you encourage us to think about that to respond to that to continue to hold fast to a biblical worldview about manhood and womanhood. Yeah i think i had just finished the manuscript maybe when the the jk rowling tweets you know those kind of infamous tweets hit. Yeah so the world would say you know our gender isn't necessarily tied to a sexy body you know it's something inside of us it's something that we we feel that we are and it's it's what we identify as so that if you've got someone who was. Assigned female at birth. Identify as a man then they may well still be having periods and so therefore the logic is that. It's not the case but only women have periods because in that case you'd have a man having a period. And i think you know. What's really clear in the bible is that the bible locates gender and sex together you know in that in that verse in genesis 1 he creates the male and female. And then he tells them be fruitful. An increase in number so you know to to be female is to be to have a female body is to be a woman to be a woman is to have a female body. And there's definitely more to being a man or a woman than that. And then kind of pure biology there is there is something more. But i think that's i think that's the base in a way that our culture is kind of become. Unmute from. And you know the bible doesn't say a ton about all those other things that make a woman a woman. And when it does it's kind of broadly descriptive as opposed to you know laying down kind of. Prescriptive. Heart of fast rules. Who we are. Is given to us you know we believe fundamentally that there is. I got a creator who. Ask creator has authority. And who who gives us our bodies. And you know. Give us our gender. And actually that's that can be you know if we're prepared to accept that then that can be that can be freeing you know that can dial down the stereotypes that can dial down the sort of. Need for sort of performative femininity or you know what the media or culture kind of demands of us what a woman should look like what a woman should. Like doing you know we can we can accept it as a as a gift. From garden that's not to. Minimize experience of gender dysphoria or to deny that that's real for some people. But you know that is to say that. When we. When we when we live as creatures in a world of of gibbons from god from a good father then actually that then that's you know that's a free way to view ourselves. Amen and that we can look to him. Do you know who we are we don't have to go on a journey to figure that out or. Feel like it's impossible to ever know we can look to our creator and he he tells us and his design and our bodies are significantly matter they speak to who we are as well so. So good rachel thank you so much for having this conversation with us this was like i said one of the most unique angles i've ever taken and talking about periods and the bible but i just feel so encouraged by it thank you. On my pleasure yeah it's been fun. And if anyone listening is like okay i want more that was too like i need to dig into that then i encourage you to grab a copy of rachel's book a brief theology of periods and then if you want to dig more into god's design for womanhood specifically just understanding how to live that out grab a copy of our book girl defined god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity those two books alone i think periods and womanhood i think you'll be sad you've got your reading list for the summer and i think your mind will be blown in so many ways and you'll just see the beauty of god's design and the gospel and that greater picture will just become so much more clear which empowers us in the biblical sense of the word to live out his design for us as women to make disciples and to be free from so much of the bondage that we can get trapped in when we do by into lies when we get confused so i can rachel thank you so much where can people find you or you on instagram is there a website. I'm not on instagram i'm afraid i'm holding out i'm holding out i do not blame you in fact that that can be a wise choice. I'm ahead of the curve on leaving instagram by have it by having never joined in the first place yeah is your book available. And many other places. Okay awesome rachel thanks again. Wow what an interesting conversation about periods oh my goodness i never knew there was so much that we could talk about and i think we really just scratched the surface i mean she has an entire book on this like there's obviously so much more to be said about it but what i took away from our conversation what i found the most encouraging is just the fact that god is our creator that he's our good father that he designed us as women to have periods and they're not insignificant they matter and he cares about that and he's he walks with us through the pain of our periods the trials of our periods or lack of period and the pain associated with that just from an emotional sense he cares about this area of our lives as women and i want to lean into that more. I will be honest with you. I don't often turn to the lord as my first source of comfort or my first source of strength when i'm having a hard time on my period and i think this conversation is reframing some things for me and just reminding me that i need to invite the lord into this part of my life i need to pray in those moments of struggle to reach out to him more to ask for his help to ask for his grace even in the pain of infertility to say you know god this is so hard my period started again it's that constantly reminder that i'm not pregnant that this is an ongoing struggle for me and lord would you draw near to me would you help me like just inviting god into it more so anyways those were some of the things i took away i would love to hear what you took away from this conversation how this change your perspective as a christian woman and how you view your periods. Come over to instagram at girl define come hang out with me let's continue this conversation i really really want to hear your thoughts on it and if you appreciate conversations like this and you've never left us a review. Girl come on take 30 seconds right now it would mean the world to us just drop a review on spotify on apple let us know what you think about the podcast what other guests you want to have on or what other topics you want us to cover we really take your feedback seriously and your encouragement really does encourage you so if you have like 30 seconds right now just head on over spotify apple drop us a review and then coming out with me over on an instagram. And then come back next monday and join us for another episode of the girl to find show. 