Today on the girl to find show we're talking about what to do as a wife if your husband is struggling with pornography my guest today is a man named jonathan doherty he's the founder of be broken ministries and he's going to share in our conversation his entire testimony of becoming addicted to pornography at a young age that leading to him sleeping around growing up in a christian home but not feeling like he could tell anyone what was really going on in his life eventually hiring out sex through prostitutes getting married thinking all of his sex problems would go away only to find out that he still addicted to pornography keeping it from his wife eventually telling her that blowing up their marriage she leaves him and then ultimately the road of redemption and restoration that god took him down and his wife and ultimately restored their marriage and today they have a beautiful marriage they have a thriving marriage filled with intimacy and now they're passionate about helping other people walk that same path of freedom and fullness in christ so stick around if you're a wife whose husband is struggling if he struggled in the past if you're not sure what to do with those feelings that betrayal those feelings of comparison to the pornography the women that he's watching if you're not sure how to handle things how to move forward what's best to do what's not best how to pray for him jonathan is going to bring so much wisdom as he shares his story and the experience is that he's had in working with so many couples in ministry how his wife responded what their whole process looked like so stick with us this is going to be powerful and so hopeful filled hey sisterhood it's kristen here and i'm so glad you're joining me for this conversation i know it's a little bit out of the ordinary for the types of content that we normally cover but the reason we want to address this is because we received so many emails dms from wives from a lot of you young wives who are struggling with this i've even talked to many of you in person. Friends who have husbands who have struggled with pornography in the past who are currently struggling and that some of you who have found out about the struggle but your husband doesn't know and you're not sure what to do. And you know sexual transsexual brokenness it's not unique to our husbands we know that we know it's something every single one of us struggle with in one way or the other. We all have sexual sin sexual pass sexual brokenness because we live in a world where sex has been distorted where sin you know chapter 3 of genesis sin has broken marriage. It's changed our desires distorted what we long for and it's only through the power of christ and his work his redemption centering our hearts on him the gospel seeking his forgiveness and walking forward in a path of freedom through christ strength that were able to for any of us able to find wholeness in christ so this is something that although many of us as women do have our sexual struggles and i know some of you listening might be struggling with pornography yourself or erotica or addicted to masturbation or something else on the reason we're focusing this angle on what we can do is why are husbands are struggling is because we haven't addressed that specific angle we have talked a lot about sexual struggles finding freedom specific as a past episodes on masturbation erotica pornography so search the archives will actually link it all below to make it easy for you. And then if you haven't read a book we wrote an entire book on this for women specifically called sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart discovering the beauty and freedom of god defined sexuality and this is a book that is probably the most personal and intimate book i've ever written i share openly my struggle with masturbation. My years of being stuck in lustful sin fantasy keeping it a secret feeling like i was the only woman who struggled not knowing what to do who to turn to feeling so trapped so ashamed and just my journey to freedom what god did in my heart and my life the people who used what that looks like i sure all of that we talked about how sexual sin lust is not a guy problem like we often feel in the church like it's a guy's problem on their visual like no we as women struggle to we get that i've been there i know and so this book addresses all of that who have you been discipled by sexually has it been the world has it been the word how do we gain a biblical understanding of sexuality of intimacy of our design. As women are sexual beings whether we're married or single how do we understand that how do we. Navigate these longings these feelings these physical urges that we feel at any stage of life single or married what do we do with that how do we pursue holiness and purity in a genuine way how do we walk a path of consistent victory in the lord. Shop on amazon grab a copy get it free from a library wherever you can get your hands on it it is so so helpful so encouraging i wish every woman honestly could read this book. I wish this the book i had about 10 years ago it would have been really really helpful for me. This conversation know if you're a wife and you're like well i don't know if my husband struggled or he is struggling or he has in the past but he is completely free i still think you should stick around because there's some incredible deep nuggets of wisdom. That jonathan is going to share with us in his testimony in the questions i asked i mean i go to deep places with him asking very specific questions about how we as wives can navigate can process even struggles you're dealing with now as a result of a past struggle with pornography that your husband had he no longer is addicted or struggling but maybe there's things your heart is still wrestling with we talk all about. How weekend is as women find and continue to find our identity in christ despite what her husband is doing or has done in the past and if you're not married i think honestly you should stick around too because sadly statistics show such a large percentage of men are exposed to pornography at a young age many fall back into it. Add different periods of time over their life some become addicted on a regular weekly basis so it's something that even if you're unmarried i think it would be really helpful for you to gain this biblical perspective of even how to think about this for your future if you were to get married one day and your husband did have the struggle or did have this in his past how to have a biblical mindset as you go into marriage and how you would process that navigate that what you would do so i think this conversation is going to be a helpful one for everyone honestly so i hope you stick around to the very end and you glean a lot of wisdom a lot of help a lot of hope and if you know a friend a sister a wife. Whose husband is struggling she's maybe confided in you she shared it she's not sure what to do please pass this episode along to her because not only will this conversation be really encouraging and helpful she'll also be exposed to be broken ministries which is the ministry jonathan doherty started 20 years ago and has helped countless couples men and women through his resources on sexual restoration in christ and. What that looks like that path the resources so i hope you'll share this and spread it to any woman who will also find this encouraging okay without further ado let's jump into my amazing conversation with jonathan. Jonathan welcome to the girl to find show. Text kristen i'm so glad to be here and i hope i can provide something of value to your viewers and listeners. Oh it's going to be so valuable like i said we've never touched on pornography sexual addiction sexual sin specifically from this angle but i have talked to so many women via instagram or emails or even personal friends people that i know who are walking this journey of their husbands struggling with a porn addiction or some sort of sexual addiction and they're not really sure what to do and you know there's so many different stories we could get into but i think just from a high level today in our conversation i'm hoping that we can bring some direction some answers some hope. For these women some resources i know your ministry be broken ministries has some incredible resources even for wives specifically who are walking through this with her husband so i know that it's going to be really helpful but i want to start with your journey and your story i know a lot about your testimony but i think our listeners a lot of them are going to be new to your ministry and your story so take us back in time for you your journey with sexual brokenness sexual sin when that all started and then take us through the whole story to the end and where you're at today. Well how much time do you have because as you any of your. Any of your viewers will notice that i've got some gray so that means i go back a ways. But my first introduction to pornography was when i was 12 years old. And it was a shocking introduction for me because i had no context to know what i was being introduced to i was shown pornography by a friend. And it was a situation where i was not expecting to see porn and then all of a sudden i see it. And this was a shocking i would even designated. By what i understand today as a traumatic event in my life it overwhelmed my system in the moment. And basically from that point forward through junior high and high school. Pornography kind of became this secret drug if you will. Now i lived in a time where it wasn't as accessible as it is now like just. Being able to carry it in your pocket 24/7. But i will say this before any of any of your younger you know listeners and viewers just maybe tune me out because i'm talking about the 1980s here. The way in which i was introduced is still not uncommon today and what i mean by that is. Every single just about every single person man that we've dealt with in our ministry that's come through with some kind of pornography addiction or sexual addiction. They had in their childhood somebody else's sexual brokenness dumped in their life and what i mean by that is somebody else introduce them to pornography. I'm even today if. If a kid is doing just a an innocent. Internet search for maybe some homework or something and they come across something. That that is pornographic that is actually still somebody else's brokenness getting dumped into their life because there are pornographers. That are vicious in how they are. Targeting children in order to try to get them hook. But i'm doing all of this through junior high and high and high school secretly because i grew up in a really i would say a very stable christian home and so and i mean that in the truest sense of that word it wasn't like my parents were just. Like we were just the the facade of christianity my parents really were trying to live out their faith as imperfect as they were. And so i felt like we had a good grasp of the gospel in her home of the the truth of. God and salvation and the word of god. But that did not automatically. That i know how to deal with pornography as a teenager. Vibrant communication in our home about these kinds of topics. And so i think both myself and my parents didn't necessarily feel safe enough. To know how to navigate these conversations. So i just kind of grew up in ignorance around that but at the same time pornography was kind of doing if i can put it this way a discipleship work in my life around sex and sexuality. It was becoming the primary trainer. In my life of teaching me about porn or teaching me about sex. Pansexuality and as we know. Pornography is a terrible i mean it's a. It's a it's a a very strong teacher in the area but it's telling lies about. Sex and sexuality. Well by the time i get to college i had. I was so. I kind of developed just a pornographic mindset by the time i got into college then i crossed what we would call the flesh barrier. Pornography now i actually was being sexual with other people. And this is throwing a wrench into my whole face it wasn't as if i just chunked my face but i was feeling the man just a conflict i was like i know this is wrong i know this isn't good but i didn't really know what to do about it. And i was i was experiencing what a lot of guys experience especially if they. Growing up in the faith or they been around church. There's a sense of. I don't know who i can tell. Without this becoming a shaming. Conversation. And so. I just did what everybody else did and that is keep it a secret. And eventually. I met my wife when i was a junior in college and she was a freshman. And we started dating and very quickly i realized that. She was not playing the game that i was playing which was kind of a build this great facade let everybody think you're wonderful but really you're hiding. A deep dark secret. Authenticity to her a sweetness a genuine. Realness to her life. And i think that's what. Really attracted me to her. Was in some ways i felt like maybe if i can. Kind of leech on to her it'll just sort of ooze into me this idea of integrity and just amazing faith. I eventually learned that doesn't work either but we we did eventually get married. And i thought like a lot of young christian men that that would cure my problem with pornography and and sexual struggles. The specific boundary lines god had placed around saxon it was marriage. Once i get married. I'll finally sort of be inside the boundaries and everything will be fine and i won't have any more problems in this area. One thing i did learn about marriage. Is. It's not a solution. For your problems. It's a magnifier. Of your problems. I think god intends that we get into this. Intimate deep relationship in order that we are we stand naked in every way. Before this other person and there are no secrets there's nothing hidden and that's supposed to magnify whatever needs to be worked on in our lives. That i was just not willing to share obviously my. Pornography issues. And they started creeping back in the little by little there was a season for about 6 months where i felt like i'm cured i mean my goodness this isn't. It's not bothering me but. You know give any secret enough time. And eventually it will come back to the surface. And so as this normal stressors of marriage started to rise in my in my life. My stress reliever came back and i started kind of going into my secret world again. Eventually. The internet came along yes i'm not old eventually the internet came along and that started to then become a new. Wait for me to get engaged in that and eventually i started using the internet even set up offline sexual encounters. And when that didn't work i would even go pay for sex with prostitutes and so it was really. Really dark. And eventually in the summer of 1999 after we've been married for 4 years. Everything came to the surface and. It all came out and my wife. Left in order to protect herself from any more hurt. Play really quickly. How how did it come out did your wife discover it did you confess it. Cuz she didn't know about this when you got married it sounds like and then it didn't come out for for 4 years into your marriage is that right. She didn't know all the details when we got married i did make the confession to her before we got married that i was not a virgin but there wasn't i mean i didn't share much more than that. So it was kind of like in some ways i felt like it was the obligatory confession just to make sure. I'm not being a complete fraud in our dating relationship and she has some information of going into this marriage. But once we got married i mean i was i was making all the promises of like know this will never have this would never be something that happened so clearly. Even more secrets. All of these these secret behaviors with pornography and everything else. Now the way that she found out was that i i did eventually just dump everything on our confessed at all. And i think it was it wasn't so much that i was ready. To really engage the hard work of transformation and what it takes to recover from an addiction. I think i was because i was actually clinically depressed and suicidal and too lazy to write a suicide note. And so it was like i'm going to confess all of this and then by the end of the week i'll. Complete suicide. The way god orchestrated in that week obviously i didn't complete suicide. When my wife left after a series of events that happened right after i. I confessed. It was like. That was actually the catalyst that god used to break me. And part of it is because i had i've been kind of building this delusion in my life because my wife was such a good godly woman. Did i just assumed there's no possible way she would ever leave. Which i think is a dangerous assumption to make about another person when they're being. Continually wounded and eventually realizing wait a second there's a line that i have to draw here and i got to get out of here. And it's a it's an appropriate line it's a safety boundary. And for her when she left because i had this delusional thought that she would never leave. Oh my goodness she did leave. What do i do now. You know without kind of the strong one that tethered our relationship together. She said these words to me she said i don't want to see you or speak to you ever again. And she was a truth teller. If anything was going to change in my life. The motivation had to be between me and god not anything else it could be for trying to save my marriage or image or anything like that. I tell people all the time that sometimes we've got to put whether it's whether we're put in a situation. Where i was kind of involuntarily into this isolated it's got to be between me and god or whether you need to put yourself in that situation voluntarily you have to get to this place where your ultimate motivation for wanting to actually. Change. Is something that's deeply internal. It's it's deep inside of you. Not something that is about. Just your situation or. A relationship. And so that started my recovery. And that also. That also started a season with my wife where she was actually going through some healing. Buy nothing short of a miracle and the grace of god we were reconciled and so. We've actually been married for 27 years and we have three adult children and. For the last 20 years i've been doing this kind of ministry full-time would be broken ministries. So that's the. The story kind of in a nutshell. And feel free to. Pick it apart and ask whatever questions you have that might be helpful for your audience yeah well i know in this conversation we're focusing on. The man struggle with sexual sin and how we as women respond how we can help how what what what can we do how do we take it to the lord. But i just want to stay up front we are well aware that us as women also have our sexual struggles and i have my own journey of as a woman being exposed to pornography at a young age by seeing a magazine on you know a parking lot as i was riding by on my bike you know back when i was like 10:11 and then that leading to thankfully not an addiction to pornography but just a life that was filled with secret less secret fantasies masturbation scared to tell anyone you know didn't want anyone to know the struggles that i had and it wasn't so much later i finally came you know brought it to the light and confessed it and started a journey toward freedom. So i know that sexual brokenness sexual addiction is something that men and women struggle with. And we have a lot of resources for women specifically here at world of find so the focus on for this conversation is like i said at the beginning in angle that we haven't really taken so i just want all the women listening to know if you are personally struggling with something and what jonathan is sharing your like wow i relate to some of his his journey his story in my own personal life. Then please grab a copy of our book sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart and then at the end stick around because jonathan also has some resources for women there's a lot of other ministries will link below that can specifically help you as a woman in your sexual struggles but. Focusing on the wife who has the husband who is struggling in this conversation. When your wife told you that she was leaving. Why it to me not knowing who you guys are or the extent of your struggle how that was impacting your marriage that feels a little extreme and that moment what what led her to make that choice of. I'm out of here and was it like i'm gone forever or was it more if i'm leaving until you get things worked out and then i'll come back what was that like behind the scenes. Viewers to understand as i respond to your question is that it's very important when i'm sharing things from my story that everybody received that is just being descriptive. And not prescriptive and what i mean by that is. Are our story is not a formula to overlay on anybody else's relationship as if this is the way to do this. In fact when we first started our journey i mean i didn't have ministry on my mind my wife wasn't thinking about restoration i mean it was like crisis we were in the middle of a crisis. Our marriage was blowing up because of my infidelities. So one thing i would say about the whole issue of like whether to separate or whether to stay. Now we we cancel when we coach wives to say okay listen. Your safety in every way is of primary importance. But should you want to separate which may be necessary for a season. We would highly recommend that that be a therapeutic. Separation meaning you've got to you got a therapist that is helping to guide you in that so it's not just for the sake of i want to get i want to run as fast as i can away from this this person that is has wounded me. And then there's other factors that are involved in that of saying hey is this a husband. That is broken and willing to actually get the help that's necessary for what he's been doing. That's another enormous factor of of how a wife can and should respond. Two to that relationship but. In our case my wife was essentially just saying this is the last line you've crossed the last line. Indicators leading up to that to where she was realizing something's wrong here. No she didn't have all the details at that point in time. But i was i was not pleasant to live with. In many other ways anger rage all kinds of stuff just. Totally. Disconnected in isolated and not not really. Working on developing an intimate relationship in my marriage. So by the time the actual details came out that was like okay. Now i see clearly what's been going on and this is such a gross violation of our your vows. I need to remove myself now in in her case. She got some excellent council from. Are pastor and some friends that basically said hey come back into your home not not with me but with her parents come back in your home don't make any major decisions don't make any financial decisions don't make and so she was able to just kind of have a time of healing. To where there weren't any major decisions being made and i think that was the best advice that she was given. And we still give that advice to wives who are in a situation where they go. All i know is i can't be in the same room with him anymore okay great let's help you get to a safe space. But don't do anything rash in terms of saying i'm filing for divorce today i'm going to take all my money you know just. Take a breath. And put yourself in the care of people that know how to navigate. These situations before you take any major steps regarding the relationship. One of the things that i think a lot of women find very confusing as i've talked to so many women over the years is. When you're married and your husband struggle with porn let's say before you're married and then he has this thinking and maybe you do too you know once we're married there won't be any struggles with porn or sex addictions because we can have intimacy and marriage we can have sex whenever we want it's going to fix our problems obviously that's not the case but. Why do you think that men still struggle with pornography on the other side of marriage when they can have as much sex as they want with their wives. Well in the main reason is because and i hope your listeners will really lean in on this. Is. Sexual addiction. Is not about sex. And i know that can seem like wait a second you got to be kidding me. In fact i will make the argument. No matter what what substance. Or behavior. That you put next to an addiction whether it be drugs alcohol. Gambling. Whatever it may be. It's not actually about whatever that thing is. There are routes that go deeper than that in a person. So the way we categorize it is we say typically when you're talking about a pornography or a sexual addiction something that's compulsive like this guy can't seem to break free from it he's gotten married. And he's still doing these other things. And the reason is because we categorically say that a sexual addiction is is more of an intimacy disorder. Then it has anything to do with the sexual behaviors. And therefore there's a deficiency there's brokenness there. At the intimacy level what i mean by intimacy is i mean. The emotional stunted miss of that man. The inability to know how to bond well emotionally in a relationship maybe there's historical wounds that have told him shame lies about his identity and worth and therefore he doesn't feel as if he can actually open up. In a vulnerable relationship all those things are actually drivers. The sexual addictive behaviors. But it's not about the sex and so this is really important i think for wives to understand because. It's such a deeply personally wounding thing. For a wife. When her husband's eyes are going elsewhere when his mind and his body is going elsewhere when. And it can be very confusing because there's no other way for a wife to take that then personally. And i believe that's right i mean she should take it personally. That he is doing these things. But then but then the false assumption is. That he's doing these things because she's not satisfying enough or she's got some deficiency. And that that's where we have to stop that line of thinking. We tell wives all the time. This didn't start with you. There's no way that you were the beginning. Of this man's issues with whatever his sexual brokenness is. Those roots go way back. Usually again they go back to childhood. What are some of those intimacy wounds some of those emotional wounds certainly the introduction of pornography and other outlets sexually all that stuff starts getting tangled together. By the time he meets and marries his wife. He's got a mess of an emotional system. That needs to actually be healed and and matured. In order for that. Relationship then to be what it all it was intended to be. That's so good i want to give you two different scenarios two different situations that wives that i've talked to have been in. One is and then i want your input on it one is the wife who knows her husband is struggling. Currently with pornography she knows it and and he's just kind of struggling on and off maybe not really seeking really intentional help. What should she do and to the wife who secretly finds out. Better husband is struggling with porn he hasn't told her she secretly finds out some way. What should each of those wives do. We'll start with the first one the wife who knows her husband struggling he's open about it but he's not really seeking help. Yeah that's good so in both situations i think they're you know we talked a lot about boundaries and in our ministry and and recognizing that. The boundaries are not about punishment. Boundaries are about safety. If you think about it the reason that anyone puts up a fence. Is because they are declaring what is valuable to them inside the fence. And therefore it needs to be protected from anything. That is outside of that fence. Philosophically you have to approach boundaries in that way and so for the wife who knows her husband struggle but he's not getting help. She's got a i think there's two things that are important one is i think she needs to get. In an environment with other women. Who are. Personal experience in dealing with those kinds of situations just the betrayal of that the trauma that that causes in a woman's life. And then. Kind of some of the tools for okay what are the specific boundaries that i need to set how do i need to set those how do i enforce them in a way that. Is both. Allowing for safety in my life but also not seeking to shame and dishonor my husband and that's a real fine line sometimes because sometimes all all wife wants to do is just you know beat the snot. Out of her husband who's just saying. What am i not valuable enough for you to. Like do some work in this area and so. It's really it's delicate it's always messy. But i think boundaries are essential and then i think she's got to be able to learn some language of how to communicate with him about that to express her desires. Without imposing mandates on him or or you know. Ultimatums those kind of things. So it's one thing for her to be able to say. You know. When you do such and such i feel this way i feel abandoned i feel hurt and so therefore i need this space i need these boundaries these are things that i'm going to you know i will remove myself from the situation when such and such. All of that is a way of her to be able to express her emotions without saying i'm not trying to control you. I'm actually trying to protect me. Now for the for the wife who has like found something the husband is totally oblivious. To her having found that. I think also. As much as she may want to just like fire off immediately. And just create. Like a scene because of finding this. I think it's important that she also. Get some wise counsel. Engage with some some women that can help her to be able to say okay. Obviously there's going to need to be confrontation of this but not in a combative way but you're going to need to confront this because you now have this. And don't try to use this as leverage and all that kind of stuff but how can she actually be able to introduce this in a way. That allows for the possibility of her husband to one. Confess it into be able to move towards a healthy resolution where he says. I'm going to do something about that. What is this on your phone i just found. Next thing you know i mean he's going to get defensive he's going to you know he's it's probably going to go very poorly. No with that being said. There should never be any expectation that any of these kinds of interactions around what is essentially betrayal are ever going to be pleasant or easy. So don't think that there's any possible way. That you can address these situations where there's not going to be any kind of pain or any kind of discomfort. But i think there are some ways in which these can be addressed where it doesn't have to be just like now it's getting 10 times worse. Then what it was before. Hearing what you've walked through and and you and your wife and how you're still married. And going on you know multiple decades now i think that alone i hope in this moment for the woman listening who is in one of those camps that we just described i hope that brings her some encouragement that there that there could be a better path for them as a couple moving forward that god can work. That he can redeem he can convict he can restore in his timing and i know it's going to be a journey so can you fill us in a little bit give us some hope. For what that looks like for you and your wife how long that journey was what it looks like for you today how she came alongside you did she you know throughout your journey of recovery. Yeah what are the things that i want to say right off the bat and answering that question i think it's important for both. A husband and a wife in the situation to hear this loud and loud and clear. God cares about you. More than your marriage. It's a good thing but sometimes i think we can elevate marriage to where it's almost an idol. The marriage is restored then all is lost there's no actual good that can come out of it. You know chris and i've been doing this for 20 years. There have been some situations where it's like the only best solution here. Is that there is an end to this marriage. Because one person just will not. Actually. Respond to grace will not respond to. Recovery or restoration and and sometimes you can't. You cannot force another person to do. What you would long for them to do. And that's why i think on this journey each individual has to come to their own. Resolution in their own hearts to say. I want to go on a journey. Of being. Better i want to go on a journey of being more committed to christ of being more of what i'm designed by him to be whatever that may look like. And we can't control what the other person does. I was totally oblivious to the healing that was going on in my wife's life and it's probably very very good that i was. Cuz it kept my motivation focused on like i got to do this because i don't like living with me. You know i don't like the me that i am so i better go on this journey of transformation. But then when we did finally get back together. Absolutely it was a mutual journey of trying to help each other. Continue to provide whatever sort of support and space and time. That my wife needed in order to continue the healing process to feel stable secure. The main thing that it meant for me and i hope that i hope there are some actual husbands that might be listening to this as these wives are pulling them in to hear this conversation. The biggest thing that helped in that process was me actually being. To my recovery and actually saying i'm intent on being a man of integrity no matter what. And so whether i'm up down or sideways i'm going to live in the light i'm not going to hide anything anymore no more lying no more secrets. That went a long way over time for rebuilding trust and giving her a sense of safety. Her also she was tremendously supportive of me. Really encouraging me you know. Pushing me into the the kind of environments that i needed to be into i don't mean pushing like. I want you to be in a group i want you to get the counseling that you need. When you have two people that want. The best for each other. That's the ideal situation now don't get me wrong it's not as if we travel the road perfectly. But i think our hearts were that we want what is best for our spouse. And we know that if each of us are growing. Then the marriage is absolutely going to. Survive and thrive. What are some. Ways that a wife who's listening right now can. Can love her husband or pray for her husband. Maybe a husband who is a believer and he is wanting to. Wanting to recover from his addiction how can she what are some just good ways that she can support and pray for him. On this journey. Yeah so what i'm about to say my. Odd maybe even cruel but i think it's biblical and and that is. Pray for your husband. To be absolutely miserable in his sin. And i know that sounds like how is that a loving thing but the reality is is like. I believe that you know you may have heard that the only way that people change is when the pain of change becomes less than the pain of staying the same then they change. So there's a sense in which. A wife can and should pray god. Let let the full weight. Of his sin crush. Make it so uncomfortable make it so miserable make it to where he knows that the only hope that he has is to look up. Open his arms and receive the grace that you've offered to him. And i think. Cuz sometimes we want to. Guys especially that are on this journey. We want to manage. Arson. Every now and then it flares up but you know i really i'm kind of managing it. Instead of like killing it crucifying it saying it's evil it's poison it's cancer. It's okay for her to say you know what i want you to hate your sin as much as i do and like can you can you feel that and so sometimes. Another way to pray that maybe if a wife is struggling with those specific words. Is saying god can you give him. A sense of empathy for me. Can you help him to see the pain i'm in. Can you help him to understand what this is doing to me cuz he seems blinded to that he seems so intent on just himself and doing whatever he wants. Can you open his eyes and let him know that people are hurting. Because of this and not in a way of like. It's not about shame at that moment it's about reality. And i know for me when my eyes started to open up and i started to realize just how much i've been self-absorbed how much what i was doing was hurting other people. There's a reason why our ministry is named be broken. There is a godly brokenness that says. In psalm 51:17 it says the sacrifices of god are a broken spirit a broken and contrite heart oh god you will not reject. So there is a sense in which like the weight of all of our sin. Is supposed to bring us to the light bring us to reality so that's one thing i would say. The other thing too. Is i think i can't overstate how important it is that a wife. Put herself in a place where she can get support for herself regardless. Of what her husband is choosing to do or not do. She's going to need that just for her own soul and her own sanity. On this journey she needs women not women that are going to go on a you know beat up her husband party or anything like that but. Women that are going to say. We're not even going to talk about your husband we want you to be supported for what you need in terms of your soul and your. That's so good i'm so glad you brought that up i think it's. Sometimes you might as a wife feel like well i just need a you know forgive and forget just forgive and move on and that would be like the christ-like thing to do but recognizing there is a need for healing on both sides and that is a process it's a journey it's not going to happen overnight we're going to wrap it up here in just a minute i feel like i could talk to you for so much longer but i want to be sensitive to your time and this has been so incredibly helpful so far but one of the last questions i have is when it comes to identity and thinking of the wife who is struggling to find her identity in christ struggling to keep the gospel in focus because of the struggle in her marriage and she's feeling that betrayal she's feeling like she's not enough because her husband's turning to other forms of. You know sexual fulfillment outside of her how can she. Focus on the lord and keep her heart centered and grounded in the gospel so her identity is in the right place as she walks this journey. That is so good you know there is no one better. Then jesus who can i identify with her sense of betrayal. I mean she has been wounded and hurt at the deepest level right here's this. Is meant to be. A protector one who can cover her one who can embrace her in a way that is saying. You are mine and no one else is and i'm going to to protect you right. And. He's essentially divided his interests he said i'm not going to just. Give myself to you i'm going to give myself to others as well. Well if you think about it. Jesus on an exponential level. Can identify with that sense of betrayal. One who has said he said i give myself fully to you. And yet. So every single one of us has betrayed him and so i would encourage her to lean in to the person of jesus. The jesus who. Wept the jesus who. Would spend time with the woman at the well the the jesus who would look at the. The the hurting and the broken and say my heart goes out to you. And so i think. That's so important because. Again i would just say it again there's nobody that can identify with you better. Then jesus when it comes to betrayal. And he has said. You can't bear it but i'm burying it for you i've already born it. And so there's a sense in which. Is a wife doesn't have to feel like i have to bear all of this myself. Christ because he says cast your cares on me. Because he cares for you. And so. Whatever posture that looks like for you and body mind and soul. A picture that you can have is what would it look like for you during the season. Where you have felt the betrayal of being in your husband's arms. What would it look like for you to just place yourself in jesus arms. The one who won't let you down the one who actually is never going to leave you never going to forsake you he will never let you go nobody can snatch you. Out of his. And i think the longer you can put yourself in that posture. Then i think that starts to seep into your life where no matter what happens. In your circumstances and in your marriage. There is a strength in a stability that starts to come into your soul that's one thing that my wife and i experience we learn through this process. As good as marriage is it is not the point of life. The point of life is to glorify god and enjoy him. And the more that we each do that individually. The more benefit that brings to our marriage but it's a it's a byproduct. It's not the aim the aim is not a great marriage. The aim is us to glorify and enjoy god. And then out of that. We get the fruit of a great marriage. That's so beautifully said and such a my heart was just so encouraged even hearing you speak those words because those words are true regardless of what we're going through whether it's struggling with pornography our own sexual sin brokenness in our marriage christ is he's the answer he's our identity the gospel building his kingdom that is our ultimate purpose we are completely whole in christ and as wives i know for me i feel that tendency of wanting to look to my husband. We're not we're not walking through a pornography addiction or a struggle like that just just daily life i find myself wanting to turn to him to be my savior in the sense of i want him to meet all my needs him to fulfill me him to make me happy and i have to continually as a wife redirect my heart back to the lord and say no that's found in the lord only my husband was not created to be my savior to be my all in all only the lord was so just for everyday life in marriage that's so important to remember that that is where our satisfaction our purpose identity it can only be found in him and when we search for it elsewhere when we try to ground ourselves in anything but christ that's when we experience so much more broken this and unfulfillment and discontentment so i'm really glad you brought that up and as we wrap things up here this amazing conversation i know our listeners our viewers are going to want to know how can i get a hold of some of these resources this journey this you mentioned grace recovery i know there are a lot of therapy options counseling options and many are not biblical they're not rooted in the word they're not rooted in getting to the heart core. Of the struggle of the sin issue so what do you mean by grace recovery and then i want to go into a little bit about what your ministry has to offer for men and women. I've been in ministry for 10 years full-time when i. Before i actually wrote the book grace based recovery. Because i realized there's even in the church there's a lot of what i call performance-based environments and they're not intentional. Performance rather in the grace of god. False identity statements that leads us to all kinds of weariness and fatigue because we're trying to do something in our own effort. That we were never designed to do so the whole idea of grey space recovery is saying the bottom line the baseline. For this whole journey. Is that. You are beloved by god. Through jesus christ. There's nothing that can make you. Do you have any more value before god and there's nothing that can make you have any less value before god so because of the grace of god. There's this constant baseline. And now you can get busy with the up and down work of recovery. Not thinking that your value is somehow. Fluctuating with whether you have an update or a down day. And so we try to teach what that looks like in all of its various components. We do these online grace based recovery groups for men and then. Authentic intimacy i know had been doing some for women i'm not exactly sure if they're still doing them but they might be still doing them for women. But those are great ways for anybody that wants to say hey i want to just understand how to apply this. Aspect of grace to recovery. And then for all of our resources for wives for men for families you can just go to be broken or. And every single one of our resources is available there and even if you don't find exactly what you're looking for please reach out to our team because our whole ministry. Objective is to help you take your next best step whatever that is and it may not be with us but we have a huge network. They were connected with and we'd love to be able to get you to the right place. Is your ministry a place where a woman a wife whose husband is struggling. Where they could go together to your website and look through the resources together maybe a husband who who isn't pursuing something actively or maybe he wants to is it a place where they could both come together and say okay let's look at what's available and find a good fit for our particular struggle. Absolutely yeah we've got a whole on our website we've got an entire section for men and entire section for wives and there's lots of great resources there and we even do what we call personal ministry consultation so if the husband and the wife are both. Want to contact us we can kind of help sort of customize their next steps so they don't feel like. My goodness there's all these resources what do i do. If we hear a little bit of their story and kind of where they're at we can help them because again we're doing this for 20 years. The best order of you doing some things that you need to really that's going to be best for you individually and for your marriage. How are you and your wife doing today and do you feel like your sexual intimacy has been restored. As you're on the other side of walking this journey toward wholeness and freedom in christ. Absolutely so like i said all of our kids are grown of course they're actually all here this summer which is kind of cool but and i would say oh my goodness it's night and day from what it used to be. It's it's funny when i talk to young guys you know guys that are newly married and maybe one or two years in the marriage and they're just so excited about the relationship and everything and sometimes i'll take him aside and i'll say. Enjoy the sex now but it gets way better and and they're like. What does gray-haired old guy talking like it's almost like this is weird this is almost gross. But here's the key. It's because intimacy is building. Sexual addiction is not about the is not about sex it's an intimacy disorder. What does it mean for us to be one what does it mean for us to actually grow in intimacy. Then everything is enhanced including sex and i think that's by god's design it's meant to be a bonding agent over a lifetime. That grows you closer and closer into that oneness relationship so i would say that for wherever any of your listeners are right now and they're marriages or maybe even if you're not married to continue to go on this journey of saying i want to be i want to be intimate with christ and recognize that everything flows out from that. And there's such peace and joy that can come in your life because. When your life is rooted in christ then married single whatever. You're you're moving in the direction of what does it look like for me to love god and love other people well. And so when you're married the other people the closest one you have is actually your spouse and so they're your first and closest neighbor but for everybody. I think we're all meant to be growing in that ability to be better at vulnerability and intimacy. Jonathan this was so helpful so encouraging. Hard i mean we're getting into the nitty gritty here but so. Needed and i know our listeners are going to be really encouraged and i hope. Feel a glimpse of what their future could be with christ working in their marriage and where they can ultimately find their hope in him even now as some are walking through some very dark values a place that you and your wife were once upon a time and just the hope of what christ has done in your marriage in your life. The redemption the restoration and where your guys where you're at today and how your intimacy is you know so much more beautiful so much more real and authentic because of the work that christ has done so thank you for sharing your testimony thank you for bringing bringing us wisdom and just even some practical direction i know i found that very helpful so we really appreciate you and be broken ministries and everything that you're doing so thank you for coming on and chatting with us today. Thanks kristen it's been a joy to be with you all and i love what y'all are doing and just continue to build such a great platform for so many women to know what it is to be the beloved so thank you for what you're doing as well what an amazing testimony amazing wisdom incredible insight. I was just so refreshing so hopefully and i hope wherever you're at right now whatever stage you're in if you're a married woman and your husband is struggling. Whether he's keeping it a secret it's out in the open he's pursuing help he's not i pray this conversation would be helpful for you to know what to do next and i think the next best step honestly would be prayer. Fervent prayer daily jonathan gave some great recommendations on how you can pray. But more specifically go to his website and check out be broken ministries and dig into some of those resources even if your husband's not willing to i think you could go and you could talk to someone you could reach out to his team and find support and next steps for you and your personal story i don't know what you're going through exactly i don't know what that looks like but i know you reaching out to be broken ministries could be an amazing next step. For you to get the help that you need whatever is going on so i hope you do that. And i also hope that you will grab a copy of sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart just to grow in your own understanding of god's design for sexuality for you as a woman. What that looks like the brokenness that maybe you've personally experienced the struggles that you're wrestling with. How to navigate all of that we dig into the nitty gritty and offer such biblical guidance in this area that not a lot of ministries are talking about for women there are some some amazing ones. Another incredible starting place for you in your own growth between you and the lord as you also learn how to walk in freedom and god's design for sexuality. I love you guys if you have questions feel free to email us on our website just go to google.com you can send us an email through there. And come back and join us for another episode next week if you appreciate this kind of content y'all know it is so encouraging to see your reviews on spotify on apple i was just reading them right before i came on. And i just love seeing some of the recommendations you guys have even some of the criticism of like hey didn't really appreciate this conversation for this reason i'm like okay it's we read those and we read every single one and we take an interest in what you have to say whether it's positive or constructive so please head on over to spotify apple leave us a review we'd love to check it out would be really encouraging to us. And then come back and join us next week for another episode of the girl to find show. 