Today on the girl to find show we are talking about all things feminism and it may not be the type of episode that you're actually thinking it is i don't know maybe it is we're going to take a deep dive on the history the movements the various waves over the years the ideology behind the movements what shaped them why women felt this need to rise up. And define themselves as women we're going to take a deep dive in and regardless of what side of the aisle you're on whether you're for feminism you're not for it maybe you're in the middle somewhere like i've heard about it i'm a christian or i'm not i don't even know what to think about it. An expert person to talk about this someone who has been digging into god's word studying the history of feminism who grew up during one of the second waves of feminism in the 60s and that's mary kassian you may have heard of her she is amazing so theologically grounded and she is going to bring us so much a deep dive on this topic today you are not going to want to miss it so throw out everything you ever thought you knew about feminism let's wipe clean and let's take a deep dive together on this crucial crucial topic hey sisterhood kristen here and i have to be a little bit honest with you i am slightly fangirling going into this interview because i have been wanting to interview mary kassian for years and she'll hear once we get into our conversation she has been instrumental in helping me understand god's design for womanhood helping me sift through just so many of the various like idiots beliefs cultural trends what's normal what's considered normal for women for marriage for gender it's so confusing and it can feel so complicated and her resources her her sessions her speaking i've heard her at many conferences read i'm pretty sure all of her books. She she has been like a mentor to me from afar and helping me understand what's true what's not what is god's design in the word but also what is it not where have we gone astray even sometimes in christian culture and buying into things that aren't actually biblical what ideas in feminism have we bought into that aren't biblical but has there been any good that comes from feminism she's very honest i feel like she has a very balanced biblical view on this topic and i think you're going to find it really really refreshing but i am like kind of getting out because this is something i wanted to do for so long so i am pumped and i hope you stick around till the very end because this is a woman who like i said 40 years has been studying this unpacking digging into god's word wrestling with the hard questions herself struggling through this like all of us and and striving to honor god become more like christ lived this out in her marriage in her community's she's just a very real honest rock kind of person. And she's not afraid to say what needs to be said and so i think you're going to walk away from this with your eyes open i think you're going to be so encouraged i know i'm going to be like i am so pumped i also wanted you guys to know if you have not taken a deep dive into the topic of biblical womanhood and you you feel confused you're like yeah i don't really know like what is god's design for me as a woman i want to understand this more than are very first book that we wrote here at girl to find is actually called girl defined and subtitle is god's radical design for beauty theory and identity and so i encourage you if you're like yeah after this conversation this was so good i wanted to get more if you have not read girl to find i know you'll find it super encouraging it's very down to earth in a way like a book that i would want to read that's just very down-to-earth very real but digs in description but makes it easy to understand and process especially some of the more difficult passages and so i encourage you it's really fun to listen on audio to so we recorded it bethany and i with our own voices so grab the audiobook get the ebook get the actual copy it's on amazon. I don't care i just want you to grab a coffee cuz i know girl to find will be a huge encouragement to you on your journey of understanding god's design for your life specifically as a woman it is so good it is so beautiful and it is so empowering and the right biblical sense of the word when we understand god's design because we are equipped through his word to follow him to live for him to impact those around us according to his good and beautiful plan for us as women and so again grab a copy girl find calm slash shop get it anywhere get it free i don't care just read it. Are you ready to dive into this huge topic with my friend mary kassian i know i am i am so pumped let's go. Mary kassian welcome to the girl to find show. Thank you kristen it's so good to be with you it is a cold wintry blustery day up here in canada. So this is fun to just kind of cozy up and see a friend you're probably somewhere a little bit warmer than i am oh my goodness girl we are here down here in san antonio texas. Fahrenheit i'm wearing a long-sleeve because i wanted to have the vibes of cooler weather but it's not cold. Well we are we are i think today is really cold tomorrow is not going to be as cold but today i think we're hitting. In fahrenheit probably about -20 - 25 maybe. Are you kidding me no no it's brittle it's brittle out there it's like you get into your car and it's. Pioneer when it comes to helping this generation of women understand god's design for womanhood and really helping us understand some of the lies that we have bought into with the various you know waves of feminism we're going to get into that and it's shaping our view a family of marriage of motherhood gender without us even realizing it because it's just kind of the way things are and i know early on when i first read your book girls gone wild and a world gone wild did i get that right yeah that's okay. I was my mind was blown. And then i read your other book the feminist mistake. And that one blew my mind even more and then a little bit later on i went through the study that you co-authored with nancy demoss will come off on called true woman 101. Diving into god's design for biblical womanhood and i just remember thinking. How have i grown up in the church. And never really taken a deep dive on any of these topics how have i completely missed it and so i felt a little bit of regret and i thought you know. There are women out there who are just like me going okay yeah i don't really get it what's the big deal feminism biblical womanhood and so i just want to hear from you real quickly as we kick things off. When did you become so passionate about this specific topic. I feel like the topic chose me it's not a topic that i would have chosen. I'm probably old enough to be your mom i'm sure i am so i am but i grew up. I was born in 1960. So i grew up in the 60s and that was right when feminism hit so i kind of watched the whole. Sort of morph change of ideology and culture and society and so by the time i hit. University. And we were german immigrants first generation canadian and i was the first generation really to hit. University. And a higher education and i was working you know taking studies in the medical field. The big topic on campus was feminism and was. Who are we as women in fact i remember even before that i remember in grade school i don't know grade 8 or something grade 7. Walking around with the girls through the playground. Singing you know. I'm strong i'm invincible i am woman or you know these boots were made for walking and we're going to stomp all over you and and there was. There was we were being trained to think differently. About womanhood manhood marriage. Morality sexuality very differently so i was really at the. That generation really that was being you know that that we're saying that. You know traditional ways of thinking are not good we need to be liberated as women we need to have a new way of thinking as women. So by the time i hate university. That was the hot topic button and really was the height of feminism. And so i grew up in a christian family i always love jesus. And when i hit university as i was working with the women rubbing shoulders with. My professional colleagues you know the doctors the lawyers the upcoming accountants and you know the women who were out there for the first time you know becoming. You know strong and invincible cuz we're women. There were a lot of questions in terms of what does the bible have to say about womanhood i must say i had those questions myself. Now i always had. A conviction that the bible was true and right. And so when. There were some friends of mine who were really really struggling. With and not even saying you know what i don't even want to become a christian because god doesn't like women. And so and so that's how i kind of got into it it was just really a matter of. I'm trying to figure it out myself. And trying to help the women that i was that were my friends and my colleagues and you know with all these new ideas. And so kind of went through that hole and it's been interesting because. The book that you mentioned the feminist mistake and feminist was gospel was actually published. I think it was the 1992 originally so that was like i was a 32-year-old. And you can already see. The progression of feminist thought. How culture was changing already in my. You know just three decades of life how how the ideology that had. Really sprung up when i was born already had had such an impact. On culture and society and its hard. I think for women who have never had anything different. She really understand how profound of a change it was or how proud of it change it it really. Has been. In the last. You know 60 years but it's it's it's it's absolutely profound like you know you can't even imagine i don't think. A world where pretty much everybody got married. Where are the average age of getting married was 20 years old for girls 22 for boys. Really really low and and it just divorce was was unusual living together was so unusual that they didn't even keep statistics of it back in the sixties like like you can't even imagine the world like that like. The term for living together was living in. Sin is what society viewed it on and it was is viewed as something. Shameful and having a child outside of marriage like outside of wedlock. So and and then only 30% of women were employed outside of the home in the 1960s. And most of those women didn't have school-age children at home because if you were had school-age children you know you mom being a mom was your job. So it's it's really really a different world than when my mom was raising us or even when i was raising my kids it was. Huge huge shift culture shift. You know things change but but just the ideology that brought about this whole change. Was really spearheaded by the philosophy of feminism. Yeah and i want you to dig into that because for those of us who are. And she's like a whole new generation of what they're into and their friend groups and what they believe in the struggles they say something like oh i feel so much older now but you know for them it's just normal and for me so much of this world we live and it's what we've always known we haven't known anything different and so it just feels like okay this is just how things have always been but clearly they haven't so in your opinion and from your studies and obviously you lived through a lot of it. What caused the feminist like the movement to happen what were they answering a problem. It's all about equal rights that's all we care about is just men and women being equal but what in your opinion was like what was spearheading this ideology this movement of feminism. Well i think you need to understand that a lot of people would call themselves feminists. And and really what they think of when they think of feminism is just that being for women having equal opportunities. Equal pay for equal work being treated justly and equitably in terms of the law so that's the kind of what they would think of when they think of feminism. And and you know if if that were what feminism was you know definitely every christian should be a feminist. Because the bible certainly upholds the dignity in the worse and the value. Of women and that women are treated. Treated well and with respect and dignity. However feminism and and i like to say feminism is an ism. Feminism is. And is. So when is them is a distinct ideology it's a it's a philosophy it's a mindset it's a worldview. That has its own addicts and its own belief system it's like when you adopt feminism. You know whether unknowingly or knowingly you put on a set of glasses that interpret the world. Through the lens of of a certain ideology. And at the time i mean there were a lot of issues a lot of what. Feminism came out of was the world world war ii really. Cousin world war ii. All women went out into the factories men went away they went to war and then when they came back. All the women went home and all the you know that started having babies because the men have been gone and so. Having a babies and having family was really really important and that was a very high value because that was something that was. Lacking during the during the war. And then technology also was a huge thing because all of a sudden instead of making bombs and airplanes they were making washing machines i would actually remember when my mom got her first washing machine it was like hallelujah day six kids and you know she got a washing machine it was incredible but all the appliances and all the. So all of a sudden there was a massive shift in technology. So you had you know your vacuum cleaners in your ovens and your your. Easy baby you got all your your technology that made looking after your home a whole lot easier than it had been you didn't have to do the wringer washer thing anymore you had an electric washer and electric dryer. So all of a sudden women had all this extra discretionary time. Also that was the advent of television. And so television still had to sell this stuff. And so it started presenting this image of women. As happy homemakers. Greatest joy in life with having a bathtub that didn't have a ring around it. And if you were a really good woman your house would be spotless you would you know you would have every appliance. And you know you'd be susie homemaker and happy blissful surrounded by all your general electrical appliances right so is this like so high heels and pearls in like the cute dress kind of visual that comes to mind okay that is the visuals now that was really a media construct really to sell all the products that were hitting the market following world war two. But what it did was it kind of put forward this image of women that women were supposed to be happy and fulfilled. In a homemaker role and that you know having having a clean house or doing all the womanly kinds of things were supposed to be. You know so fulfilling for women that they had no other interests or nothing else so. So that is kind of like the the context of where feminism are. And the question there was a journalist her name was betty friedan. And she did a survey and she found out that the women from her college graduating class. You know even though there was supposed to be happy and fulfilled they weren't happy and fulfilled even though they were doing what they were supposed to be doing there is a great deal of unhappiness and so she proposed that the problem was. This whole image of womanhood that had been presented by the media and so she said about to dismantle that there was a whole movement. Burn the bra equality let's become and it really was it initially it was less we we want to become just like men we want to. We want to have the. To be promiscuous if we want to be or and and so then you entered into a you know the whole hippie era of the 1960s the sexual revolution. Feminism was the advent of the birth control pill 1963 it really wouldn't have happened if if that hadn't happened. But the ideology really was that. Men have wrongly defined. Women need to have the right to define themselves and define their own existence that's feminism in a nutshell. It's morphed a little bit since then but. But that's really the that i have a right to define myself nobody gets to tell me who i am. Nobody gets to tell women who we are especially not men are the ones who have. Define. And the whole problem of patriarchy that i'm sure you've heard that word. Go to patriarchy. Patriarchy actually comes from. The latin patcher that just father and archives which is rural so patriarchy is seen as the whole societal system where there's been the rule of the man and the man has defined who woman is. And we need to redefine ourselves now of course. Feminism has changed i think you know we see the. That was kind of the the the the the the thrust of feminism in the 60s and 70s. And we saw it from you know move from i get to define myself. To i get to define my world. Two i really get to even to find who god is because i don't like this patriarchal god who's revealed himself as male in the scriptures which have been so oppressive to women that is that's the ideology so you have this whole and and then. Feminism took a little bit of a hiatus. And then you had a whole new birth certificate. Come in what was called the third wave of feminism that was called the second wave of feminism the first wave first wave was right to vote back in the 1920s. Second wave was the whole. Feminist revolution 60s 70s 80s. Resurgence really of in the new millennium with the new generation which has been fascinating to watch and it's not so third wave feminism. Is that still happening i mean how would you define it when did it start what what has been changing. Yeah you know third wave feminism really actually started in the 1990s there was a whole thing called the riot grrrl movement which was. Punk through the punk rock and riot girls. Who basically. Was popularized and just saying you know. We are going to be brash and we're going to you can't tell us how we should dress you can't tell us. How how. We ought to act or behave and really it came to pinnacle in there's a book by jennifer baumgartner in 2000 called manifesto. Jessica valenti's in 2007 which was full frontal feminism book. A different little bit of a twist and there's even being a bit more sense. But the twist that they put on it was. In the in the 60s there was really a. Kind of push back against the sexualization of women. So you know we don't want that that you know pornography and sexualization of women so women began you know there was the unisex look. You know women really deny their femininity they didn't want to wear bras they didn't want it they just wanted. And and. So but. In this new wave in the third wave. The feminist began to see sexuality is a form of power. If i am a powerful woman. Sexuality i can use that as as. As a sign of my power. So if i can dress the way that i want i can dress sexually i can my sexuality is a powerful thing and so there was a real shift there so all of a sudden you had you know the fishnet stockings the the big tall. You know boots the leather the suggested that you know. And and women were allowed. To act as sexual and to be sexually aggressive. And that was seen as a mark of power and a mark of liberation. Feminism has always identified some very real problems. And you know we don't want to minimize. The problems in society that feminism has often identified in the way that women have been treated. And you know women around the world often. Are treated very poorly and i think that that. Those problems are legitimate. But the answers. That and and so often you know we were drawn toward. Feminist thought because. But the problem is that that the answers that are provided or not. Biblical answers in fact they take us further and further away. From biblical truth and. It's so true and i'm glad that you brought that up that it is it is saying there's a problem there is there's a problem in the way that society is treating women viewing women in many ways so and around the world especially we see that. More so than even here and in the us at least. And so yeah i think that's so good that you brought that up something interesting. Is this the way that there is this christian this evangelical movement that's kind of like a feminist evangelical movement and you made a pretty big statement a second ago that feminist is answering in many ways is answering a problem calling out issues but the ideology behind it is not rooted and grounded in god's word. And so what i'm hearing from this next generation is this confusion of. Well yeah i'm for women i'm a feminist and i'm a christian. I go to god's word i believe the bible but i'm still a feminist so can you help us understand how what's happening in the church how has this the ideology that isn't biblical how is it impacting us as women to where we're now buying into a lot of the unbiblical ideology but kind of putting a biblical label on it. Yeah well i think some of it again we talked about earlier whereas some of it comes down to your definition of feminism. If you think that feminism is just being for women. Then then you can call yourself a feminist. Play i think that someone who calls himself a feminist fails to realize that feminism is a part of a coherent ideology certainly there's different streams of it there's different. People that speak into it. There are are are different sort of flavors of it but at roots. The feminist ideology says that women have the right to define who they are. Whereas. Biblical thinking says we we do not have that right as humans men don't have that right either men don't have the right to define who they are and don't have the right to define who women are. God has the right to tell us who we are because he is our creator. So that's that's the fundamental. Difference between. What i would call someone who has a biblical worldview and someone. Has a feminist worldview and and and and and what what becomes difficult is is. Terms it's a difficulty in often you know labels. So some people will go well yeah i'm a feminist some people will recoil at that label. But you know for your listeners what's most important. Is that your worldview that. Thoughts of of who you are and who women are in the whole purpose of. Masculinity femininity male female marriage morality sexuality. Is informed by our creator. And that we go to god's word to figure that out we don't just kind of. It's not up for grabs you know the definitions aren't up for grabs. Not if you want to have a biblical worldview how would you say that feminism. In a definition that's a worldly unbiblical definition of we define ourselves we make our own rules how have you seen that ideology impact women in the church. Specifically. Well i think that ideology has impacted women ever since the garden of eden i mean i was like you know it's not it's nothing new i mean i struggle with that all the time i mean as to you as do you know as do all you women who are listening to this you know. That there's a fundamental battle going on in your spirit between who gets to be god like who gets to be god in my life is it going to be me or am i going to submit to the lordship of jesus christ is. Is you know am i going to am i going to approach this based on the way i feel about it or that i think i can make the right decisions or that god is somehow holding out on me that's what you thought you know that. That you know god doesn't have my best interest at heart he's. You know he's holding out on me and i have the right to make my own decisions so. So i think it's a fundamental. Issue in each of our hearts it's in my heart. And it's in your heart. You would admit that as well and so i think i think what. I think the the the temptation when we see a problem particularly when we see a problem that impacts. People we love are women or that we've dealt with ourselves i mean a lot of. Your listeners will have. Bumped up against issues of of abuse or sexual abuse or. Man who have treated them poorly relational issues of. You know having having. Really authoritarian father who is has been really harsh. So you know we and our tenancy when we bump up against. Painful stuff. And real stuff and. Issues that are hard and. Are in our world because of sin is to think that while we need to do something to solve. Solve those issues. And and there's certainly are you know they're they're things that can be done and yet at route are never going to be dealt with. Apart from dealing with the problem is sin and apart from dealing with the problem of the fallenness and brokenness. Of humanity. And so and apart from upholding the answer. That is found in jesus christ you just can't deal with those problems other than that. And all of us we we want to jump to our own solutions our own answers and. Not see sin as the ultimate route. So shifting a little bit i want to get into a few specifics because. Even over the past few years culturally things have changed so much regarding what a normal understanding is of things like marriage gender sexuality and i know some of the feminist ideology has played a role in what's now normal thinking in these areas how have you seen that ideology impact. Review of these crucial obviously very biblically foundational areas of life. It's i mean there's been so much impact in fact i think that. I mean i don't know what it's like where you live but where i live. There are churches grappling with you know the issues of acceptance of our normalization really. Of homosexuality lgbtq etc just the whole gender transitioning and the the whole tran phenomena that we see and let me tell you that some of this. God as far as feminism you know turn to to ranch culture like they were wrong you know there was a real. Ranch culture that i can i have a right to dress how i want. Behave how i want to be a sexual as i want and and that's okay in fact that's that's a mark of my power. As a woman. But but third wave feminism actually. Start a turning a corner. Or started actually going even in a little slightly different direction. When kimberle crenshaw and i don't know if you've heard of her. She had this theory of gender and critical race theory. So basically. She was saying that that. That we are oppressed women are oppressed but women aren't just oppressed as women women are also oppressed on the base of their race. On the base of their economic status on the. You can't just put all women into a. Group. It's not just women in that group it's also men who identify as women it you know can be homosexual. Biological man or biological women who do or do not identify as women. And so she came up with a theory that is really impacting us. To and and really has. Escalated the whole question of what does it mean to be a male or what does it mean to mean to be a female. It really has brought it to a point in culture. Because. Her essential proposition was that we don't need to redefine. Gender. We need to deconstruct. Gender so we don't need to redefine what a woman is we need to get rid of all the categories. So we can't have a category. For in a woman can be whatever you want it to be man can be whatever you want it to be sexuality. Can be whatever expression. You want it to be and. All of these things are legitimate and so it's had a profound impact on the church i mean i don't know what the statistics are. Currently but i would say that if i were to go into my church. And do a survey amongst. You know the upcoming generation of women. Most of them would agree that you know what's what's the issue with living together or sex before marriage like that that's like settled long time ago that's so yesterday that question. I. Find that there are couples that i know couples. Who are in the church who think it's just fine to have in an open marriage and to sleep around with other people that that's okay. Or that that a marriage between two men or two women is just as legitimate as any other kind of marriage. And you would you have all of this thinking in the church because. That that it was a lot easier to. The bible's teaching. On sexuality and male and female and marriage because. Society was generally a little bit more in line with it but now it's not going to be caught it has to be taught and so it's a discipleship issue. I mean that's what we're passionate about here at girl defined is defining womanhood according to god's word and so where. As modern christian women so many of us like you just described her like what's the big deal that's yesterday's news like this is normal this is fine and even feeling so much pressure from society to adopt and embrace these new modern terms of even rejecting words like male and female redefining our language like you said erasing definition completely throwing them out and saying we're starting over from scratch and so what are some of the biggest lies that you're seeing this next generation and quite frankly all of us that we're being bombarded with when it comes to. God's design versus what is now culturally normal when it comes to gender womanhood more specifically. I think that one of the biggest lies that we believe is it it's not a big deal it doesn't it doesn't impact us and. I actually i mean i i struggled with the whole issue of you know what is god's design for women i remember the first. Biblical womanhood. That was the only book i threw all clear across the room and then you know across the you know it's the other wall and it's split open into 100 pieces and. I don't know that particular book i don't know if i would agree with everything in it but. But you know what it did is that made me think and it made me go to the word of god and. I think that that's the biggest mistake is when we think we can figure it out when we think we can rely on our own smart. To figure it out. The other mistake is just following our emotions. In terms of our empathy for people because the one of the biggest lies that. That's that satan has thrown at us. Is that acceptance means endorsement that you can't love. Someone. Without endorsing or agreeing with what their lifestyle and and. And accept them. And accept. Even even when they're broken even when and it's the same for me i mean i can be loved even though i'm a broken person doesn't mean i am doing everything right and i have everything right or that. Somebody needs to agree with me on everything in order to love love me. So i think that. It becomes more and more of an issue because we. These are our people now like these are our friends. Who are struggling with same-sex attraction who you know there's. A woman who wants to get married to another woman who's never felt loved before by a man and yet she feels loved by the this woman and wants to marry this woman. These are these are people who we care about they're in our orb there are friends. They are people that we you know we're in chess club with or you know swimming class or on our basketball teams. And i think. For women especially because we are relators responders we love. Empathize with others and with their their. Feelings and with. The way that they. Feel emotionally. I think that it's easy for us to get swept up into that and to. Well it really doesn't matter it's not all that important. And god is love there and love accepts and endorses everything. And that's kind of the biggest lie i think that we need to deal with. I'm in our culture in this day and age. And i think. I actually do i remember the moments. When i went from believing that god's designed for women was right. Because i believed it was right because it was in scripture and i had a fundamental conviction that. You know what what god said was true i believed it was true. But moving from that. To. To actually. Seeing it as not only true and right. But also good and beneficial and beautiful. You know that that that that it's it's. If if we love women. We're going to be telling them. About who god says they are otherwise we're not loving them i mean you know that that it's that it's i've. Seen it time and time again. Where you know women who are bumping up against what what the word of god has to say about who they are. And they wrestle with it and fight with it and are angry at it and throw the book across the room and i just got you know and yes. When god's holy spirit gets a hold of them and they fight their way through that and hold on. To jesus and onto the the truth. Of the word of god. I've seen them get through to the point where where. They get to that understand and get to that point of seeing god's design is not only right but as beautiful. And part of the reason. Add fact the primary reason. It is so beautiful. Is because who we are in terms of gender and sexuality tells a story where storytellers that's all we are. As humans it tells a story and it tells the story of the gospel. And it's a beautiful story that's the story of our redemption it's a story that brings us life it's a story that brings us healing and wholeness. And brings us to the point of understanding who we are. And where we can step into who we truly are. And i'll find ourselves really as we step and move toward christ and his plan for us and it's so beautiful and i know some people listening right now are going. Okay wait what my womanhood my gender tells a story of redemption. Can you help us understand a little bit more about what that means i know that is like an entire bible study you guys get your woman 101 true woman 102 and you will get the deep dive but more in a nutshell just give us a vision of how our gender tells a bigger story and why it matters so much. Well i think. When you look back. Through the story of scripture and through the story that the bible tells. You see the opening pages you see the opening pages of scripture talking about the creation of male and female. And and then this you know the father god god creates male god creates female and then so history really opens up with the creation of male and female in a marriage that's how history started like that's how humanity the history of humanity. Start. And then you flip to the. Revelation and you open up the book of revelation and you see how history is going to wrap up you know this prophetic vision that. History is going to wrap up and guess what it's going to wrap up with the story of a woman and a man and a marriage. Well who's the woman well the woman is the church. Who's the man it's jesus christ the bridegroom. And the marriage that we will see when we that will take place when we are united. With christ at the end of time and so you have this those are the two bookends genesis and revelation and then in between you have all this. A drama and gnar. And and revelation and ephesians talks about you know this this mystery of what all this means all of a sudden was revealed. When jesus christ came he says i'm talking about marriage but i'm really not talking about marriage i'm talking about the marriage i'm talking about something far more spectacular and enduring an eternal and amazing. And that is a relationship of jesus christ and his church. So there's this whole story. That goes on through scripture and in fact. Paul explains that you know what. Or even jesus mentioned this that there will be no marriage in scripture because all of this temporary stuff. Points to something eternal and at that time we will see where the storytellers and we will see. The extent of the whole an entire story will draw to a close and the story will begin. So it is. It's an amazing thing and i would encourage you probably true woman 101 is the book. That unpacks at the you know goes through genesis. And it takes the deepest dive into all of that but it is an incredible story and if we truly love. Women. This question that's kind of floating through culture is it really that big of a deal as christians just like you briefly described get the book to get more it impacts our view of god and really the metaphor the picture that the male and the female in this marriage that the metaphor of christ and the church in skewed if we get it wrong here on earth and we look to a picture that is not accurate it's not biblical for you know a woman and a woman or a man it doesn't paint that picture of the gospel as god intended it too and so it's such a big deal that we get it right so we understand the gospel absolutely and i mean i was romans talks about that. That's god's eternal being and his eternal attributes. Are self-evident in what he has created. And those things tell the story of god so if i were god's arch enemy. What better way of obscuring the truth about god. Then messing up the storyline the the physical earthly storyline. That he created to tell the story like you mess up that you mess it up. And if you can mess up the relationship between male and female and create like gender wars and the war between the sexes and then you can. Bring sin in to bring all the ugliness to bear on that and and and and and and. You know just all the things that sin brings into the picture in terms of abuse or oppression or degradation all those things. It's actually no surprise that we're dealing with this and it's even no surprise that we're dealing with the deconstruction of gender because if gender. To god to paint the picture of who god is and the relationship. If if god created us. To tell that story but what better way to try and attack that and mess it up then deconstruct gender and deconstruct. Morality sexuality marriage all those things. He has a good our enemy has a good plan i mean it is too smart how can we will close on this but how would you encourage us as women to get into the word and understand a biblical. Picture of womanhood of gender you made that turn you knew it is truth and then you saw it as beautiful what encouragement would you give the next generation give all of us i would say that you need to take a look at this because i think that that. That is something that you need to wrestle with and grapple with. And go to the word of god and see if it's true and don't just accept what people are telling you don't accept what i'm telling you. Don't accept what the world is telling you or what you hear from your feminist friends you just go to the word of god. And see what god says and and you have the the best if if. If you believe in the lord you have your. Your counselor and your guide. Who is going to help you understand. What that means and what that means for you now you might wrestle with it you might throw a couple books across the room you might go what does this mean because it does not mean and and hear me well with this it does not mean that you need to be a girly girl stereotype. I'm not i mean. My you know my favorite thing is is out in the garage working with my power tools like you know give me. You know give me some extra horsepower on my table saw and i'm good like that. You know so so you don't need to be a girly girl whether you know whether you drive you know you're a dirt bike or whether you. It doesn't matter you know what you do is we're talking about who you are like the core of your being who god created. You to be and i think often when we talked about womanhood people talk about what you do. Rather than who you are. And i think we need to draw the conversation back to who you are who god created you to be certainly what you do flows out of that. And yet it's not it's not a stereotype we're not talking about. Going back to leave it to beaver and you know. The poofy dress in the pearls and vacuuming you know that way. But it is such an important question. So i would encourage you. To wrestle with it wrestle with it. And ask the lord to teach you and asked the lord to reveal it to you because it will help you. Understand who you are it will help you understand how to do life. How to do relationships. It will help. You know understand how to relate to other people. And you know whatever your situation is single married. Whatever it is it will help you in terms of just understanding who god created us to be i'm going to have one more question and then i'll let you know and i'm going to drop a big one huge one on you but you can you're so wise and you you'll answer this great i'm sure but just give us as we end a help us understand what like you're you're saying. Who you are right who i am biblically so what does it mean to be a a biblical woman as scripture defines us distinct from men. Okay i think that. Being a woman distinct. From being a man. Has to do doesn't just have to do with your plumbing or your body because obviously oh well change the plumbing let's like do some surgical procedures and. I think it actually has to do with the way god has wired us. To interact and relate i think there's something. Deep within us. That he has created as male or a female for in our case it's female there's there's something deep within us to our core that is female. And it's written on to. Cell in our body each dna and so it's interwoven into the way we process information into the way that we think into the way that we. We respond and relate into the way. What what are desires are what we yearn for how we. It's almost difficult to put into words. Because it's not. You can't put a checklist together. And yet. There's something. Very freeing when you step into it and you go this is who god created me to be and i understand that that he's created me to tell the story of the bride and that that means something different slightly different we're telling the story that we're telling the same story we're telling the jesus story. Male female doesn't matter we tell the jesus story. But in a way we tell it from slightly different vantage points. And as i begin to understand that it is as though. I'm. Only become more. Of who i am as a female. But i become more. Like i i i i just. Begin to find more of my purpose for who god created me to be. And and there's there's a deep grounding and. Sense of. And i it's hard to put into words. Because as soon as you try to put it into words. You kind of you don't want to gravitate toward the check. But there is something. Woven inn where god has created us to be responders relators. As women in a way that's different than men. What passages just a few key passages for a woman who's like i want to dig into scripture but where do i start it's a huge book. Can you give us some key sections that women can go to to get to begin this journey of understanding god's design for womanhood according to his word. Well. Truman 101 is a good place to start and that will point you to genesis the first three chapters of genesis. And that will also point you to ephesians it will point you to a lot of the new testament passages. Where you know god points to to. Why exactly we were created male and female so those are good ones to. Those ones are good ones to look at good ones to wrestle with good place to start for that definitely so. Okay any closing words for us any words of encouragement for this next generation of women. I just think that that. Truth has the way of being preserved from generation to generation and i think that. God is very invested. In the message of gender and sexuality in marriage. Because it is his name and his. Image. That is at stake. And so i just i have seen you know in a world where things just seem so mixed up and. And so dark. I think you know the light off and shines the most brightly in the darkest places. So just encouragement for those of you who are dealing with tough stuff or for. Have loved ones sisters brothers. Friends cousins. That that are dealing with some tough stuff with gender and sexuality that. As we. Pursue christ. And again it's not about pursuing we don't pursue womanhood. We pursue jesus. And in a woman hasn't isn't this wonderful you know great. Thing that you put up on a pedestal and all we want to be that we want to be that it's like. It's no we want to be. We want to be like jesus and jesus is the one who begins to change us into who we really are it's it's it's it's it's it's our aim is not to become the perfect woman our aim is to become the perfect follower of christ and i think in that we are transformed into the women that he wants us to be. Thank you so much for this this was awesome okay where can people find you your resources how can they connect with you. Mary castle.com but you know it really easy just on amazon or whatever all my books are up down there if you're interested you can find them there. Okay awesome mary thank you so much for being with us today this was such a gift such a blessing i learned so much and i know everybody else did too. Wow you guys. Was amazing i had to have a lot of self-control i'm going to be honest here now that she's off i at the end there were like. 10 more questions no joke that i wanted to ask her. I got to let her go but i want to keep asking her questions. Talk about these really hard things with so i hope you found it as encouraging as i did but seriously we barely scratched the surface i mean again like i said there are so many more questions i know you have a lot more questions so that is why we mary kassian girl define that's why we all create resources so we can continue digging in and learning and we don't have to rely on like a 1-hour podcast to get everything we need on a topic right. So please like she mentioned grab a copy of true woman 101. It is by far the most incredible bible study i have ever done on the topic of the biblical womanhood and understanding god's design for gender femininity everything grab it and then if you want something that's not a study but just a book that i encourage you to grab a copy again of girl defined god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity we wrote this book to be a book that is easy to digest process it's an easy read it's quick it's fun you'll laugh you might cry but i think your eyes will be really open to the beauty of god's design and how it's relevant for us as modern women facing the struggles and issues that were facing today including social media confusion about gender what is femininity what is true beauty a lot of these questions that we have and more often than not we get our our definitions from culture without even realizing it and so bethany and i just share really raw real honestly and girl define our own journey. And we're still very much on this journey but it's a great step one so if you want something quick and easy that will take a deep dive but in a really easy to process kind of way then grab a copy of girl to find. I love you guys so much please come hang out with me let's continue this conversation i want to hear your questions i want to keep talking about this like i said i still have so much to learn i love dialogue about this with you these are huge topics and i want to keep this conversation going. So come hang out with me over on instagram at girl defined that's where we'll keep chatting about this and if you appreciate this episode if you love this kind of content if you want us to dig into these harder topics that not a ton of people are talking about and let us know by leaving us a five-star review wherever you listen to say hey great job i love this i want content like this even in your review let us know if you have any other topics you want us to cover or if you just have a word of encouragement we read all of them and it really is so encouraging when we hear from you and we know like okay you're out there you're listening you want this so drop that five star review at all so helps other women find the podcast how to become more exposed and it's just a small way takes like 30 seconds that you can link arms with us and help to further this message of. I've got to find womanhood really. I love you guys so much and i can't wait to chat with you in the next episode. 