Today on the girl to find show we are talking about the popular idea something that a lot of you have heard of it's the secular the idea of secular manifestation and girl bossing and how this whole movement this whole idea although it sounds really good it's not actually helping us as a society or helping us as christian women and so today on the show i'm going to take a deep dive with my friend and popular podcast and a new author tara son. And if you've ever heard like think about it if you've ever heard of phrases like you are the author of your story or create your own path you know create your own destiny these things they do sound really good and really compelling but today we're going to unpack why they're actually completely unbiblical and completely unhelpful so instead of leaving these lies that you can control your life. We're going to unpack what god actually says about really important things like knowing god's plan for your life how to find it how to trust him and how to make big and small life decisions while trusting god and staying surrender to him. Tara welcome to the girl to find show. Thank you so much kristen i've been looking forward to this i love you guys so much and i think this is going to be a perfect conversation because i know you guys are show and it's just a really cool guy thing that it's going to fit if we talk about identity and womanhood and finding freedom in god so thanks for having me here. It is our privilege and our honor to have you and i love your new book so for those of you who don't know i said an intro tara is a new author of an amazing new book that just released recently called surrender your story ditch the myth of control and discover freedom and trusting christ and i love this it is a near and dear to my heart kind of topic because as you know our most recent book was not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of your story so similar themes throughout each of our books of like how do we actually trust god how do we know his will for our lives how do we surrender those unfilled longings or the really hard things that were walking through and i know you've had your story i've had mine and so this is a topic that not only the two of us really resonate with but i know every woman listening right now as your ears are hearing this or you're watching this on youtube you have something in your life that you're struggling with that you know you need to surrender that you know god has a better plan for but you might be caught up in this whole myth of control thinking if i could just do more if i could just change just if i could just control this then my life would be better but we're going to unpack why that's not actually the case and how to go to god's word for truth how surrender really is the path to freedom so many of you know a quick nutshell on my story of struggling with and tara i want to get to a nutshell on your story but for me this whole idea of like surrender and discovering freedom in christ trusting god with my story really happened early in my marriage when my husband and i were wanting to start our family it wasn't happening we got pregnant and then experienced a miscarriage got pregnant again experienced a second miscarriage and a third i was diagnosed with unexplained infertility and that was almost a decade just of so many unknowns no answers dr saying we don't know what the problem is and for me there were some really low points of. One me trying to control and thinking if i could just do more if i could just research more if i could just figure out what my health issue is or get to the root of my problem like then i'll be happy you know then i'll find true freedom i'll finally get what i want and it was quite a journey for me to learn how to really trust god in those ups and downs just surrender my future to him it's not easy and i'm still very much on that journey so for me those are some of the big things i can think of where i'm like wow god like your plan has been so different these twists and turns i never saw them coming but you did help me to trust you and believe that you are good so thinking of your story looking back where would you say for you this kind of growth started where you realize like wow this is hard and i really need to surrender this story this part of my story to god. Yeah you know i always think back because to be super honest and maybe you share similar parts of your story kristen cuz i know we have similar like upbringings in a way where i've known the lord since i was really young like for the moment that i can remember i have been raising an incredible family that was loved the lord and it's a blessing. But in the same sense like. I kind of became numb to a lot of things at the bible said because i had heard it over and over again and really up until i was in middle school or about to go into high school. Life was really smooth sailing nothing really went wrong you know things kind of came naturally grades relationships. All the things and then i was diagnosed with a chronic illness when i was. Just about to enter high school and that was super bizarre because. First of all you never think you're going to get sick so young like no one ever does and so that changed everything where it changed the way i you know approached school i was bedridden for a while it changed relationships it changed everything for me and. You know. In that moment you know you think oh yeah i would have gotten it all figured out and she would have just started to trust the lord with it but actually that's kind of what god started to reveal that i had a control problem because that was the first thing that didn't go my way in my life and instead of just trusting and surrendering to god i started to you know just try to grasp back for control i said okay well my plans were derailed with this diagnosis but i'm like get back on track and i'm gonna get back to what i want to do and. It was a tug of war of trying to learn how to trust god and and not control and learn how to surrender and then even just with my my college plans thinking that i had a good plan do you know to want to go to college and do like medical field things and it's a really good desire really good dream and desire but. God called me away from that and that was something that i never thought he would do. I think that was actually the first instance where i was really knocked over the head with it like oh like i need to surrender cuz clearly life is not going the way i thought but i needed to find the beauty and that i needed to understand that that was actually okay from a gospel point of view and so those two realizations really brought me to my knees that i had to fish and i had weaknesses and. I didn't have the ability to control my life but the good news is that's actually that's actually a good news it's actually a really good and freeing thing from jesus that we don't have to have it all together so i think those are like the two biggest things in my story so yeah that's so good but so unnatural like when you talk about surrendering your story and trusting god i think like in my heart the rest i have is like but that's not how i'm going to get things done like i need to be in control i need to make this happen like if i don't do everything possible then things aren't going to you know they're not going to work out the way that i want them to and i think that's definitely i mean that's not a biblical mindset at all and it's definitely the mindset that the world has which is why we see things like manifesting you know and like okay just calling things into existence and they will be for your future so you talk about this in your book and i love that you unpack this because it is really popular and i think a lot of us as christian women are buying into this idea of quote manifesting but it's very secular it's not rooted in god's word it's not good theology so can you unpack for us just briefly what that is and why it's not a biblical approach to our stories and our future and our plans. Absolutely i think it's so cool of god that this book came out when it did i know that it's a timeless message of surrender and trust but. We're kind of in the thick of this whole manifestation movement and girl bossing the secular girl boxing movement and manifestation really at its core is a secular non-biblical belief it's very worldly it's it's honestly like almost witchcraft very like bad spiritual energy and all those things and it's basically this belief that you can if you think positively about your life and. About the outcomes of your situations that you can make it happen by sheer force of will the actual like definition of the person that came up with this that started writing books on this is just manifesting bringing about things in your life by your sheer force of positive thinking and your will which again we know biblically it's not our will but god's be done. And so this is something that. I don't think that christians are exempt from this we can say all day that we don't believe in secular manifestation but sometimes our lives live to the contrary that we start thinking like you said kristen like i have to do this i'm going to get this done or sometimes we mistake our talents and our and our work ethic for our abilities to control everything and so yeah it's basically just this recognition. Is that god is god and we're not and that when the world tries to tell us that we can do all these things it's actually keeping us in bondage which is the sad thing. I think the world believes that we can be free. When we try to control that it's going to get us to the destination to the fulfillment to everything we've been longing for but. Number one i really don't believe that it's it's possible that it's going to work out because biblically we know that god is the one who holds everything but it's actually just going to keep us spinning our wheels that's like a mental picture i think of is us trying to manifest and control is just like. Not going anywhere but just spinning spinning spinning and not like propelling forward until like what god has for us so that's just like kind of. Manifestation in a nutshell. How do we. Work hard. Like scripture has. How do we find that balance because even i wrestle with that of like even with my infertility i find it's really helpful in the research i'm doing like as i'm working on my health and trying to heal my body holistically despite you know the doctors diagnosis of unexplained infertility i'm like you know i know there's something wrong but i also know that god is sovereign that he has a plan that his will will be done but there's things i can do to help my situation maybe you know and we can continue to pray that god would bless us with a pregnancy with a baby it's still a longing and desire of her heart so how do we hold those two like the surrender and the trusting god but also like working hard and doing what we can that's the greatest question because i actually get that a lot and i struggle with that too thinking well there's a lot of stuff that i can do about this but i don't want to make. Decisions or moves that that try to take back control like i still want to live surrendered right and so i always come back to knowing that like god has given us free will that god's will is always going to prevail but he has given us free will and so the results and the timing is all up to god but the obedience and the simple everyday activities is up to us so even just in like my instance of you know. Wanting to. I was really young but i really wanted to get married sooner i wanted to get engaged sooner i was super impatient in that season and i tried a lot of things like to be super honest i tried like. I made him feel bad like i tried to bring it up too much and obsess over it and idolize it and so that was my way of trying to control it and of just kind of being patient and waiting in that moment and so. Fertility like trying to figure that out. I have really come down to this idea and this belief that. We can move forward in faith and if we're making decisions we have a whole chapter in front of your story actually about how to make decisions that honor god because we want. And it's not passive it's actually super active and so you can have full confidence in full face that you can make decisions that align with god's word. But be very careful and watchful what happens like if if there's if there's an obvious no. Obvious closed door. Then we need to be able to follow god into that instead of trying to keep breaking down those doors and pushing through and so kind of balancing both of those and realizing that you know when god says no i'm going to redirect her i'm going to wait and i think just being really in tune with the spirit is so so key when we talked about this. But just knowing i guess that surrender is so active because some people are like well i feel like i'm giving up but i'm losing but yes actually it's actually victory in jesus it's so backwards but it's. Did so life-giving. Yes you know when you think like the word surrender to me and my perspective isn't it's not this anymore but like the idea of the white flag of like two you know the nation's fighting and it's like the one surrenders and it is it's like we give up. You can have control and it's i think that's why we think of it as like a passive thing of like we're just giving up but we can hold our desires you know desires that are in line with god's word we can hold those desire those hold them with an open hand and when you say surrender isn't passive it's active can you unpack that a little bit more because i think that's a really powerful thing to understand. I think of luke 9:23 it's one of the verses that surrender your story was based off of and it was when jesus was talking to his disciples and it was one of the verses that i've read since i was little but i didn't really fully understand this until maybe 5 years ago and she's just told them in verse 23 he's like if you want to come after me so if you want to be with me and fellowship with me as my disciple and keep my company you need to do three things you need to take up your cross every day and you need to basically that means you need to count the cost is it worth it for you inevitable suffering and. Literally i mean i know that modern-day christians can face up persecution and even death today too but i think for the disciples it felt more real sometimes where they were really hiding and you know and just really like fighting for their lives in many ways i wouldn't say that maybe sometimes we can relate to that but jesus just wanted us to be like do you know that life is going to be hard but i'm going to be with you. And then he also said to deny yourself or to die to yourself which basically means surrender to give up personal control and then follow him so that is the literal three-step process of what it means to be a disciple of jesus and that's the same for us today and so surrender looks like actively trusting him every single day that might be hard for us to hear i know it is for me too because i wish there was a one-and-done fix where it's like jesus help me to surrender today for the rest of my life and then i'm done but surrender is active and one way because it's every single day. Surrender is actively laying down our worries and our dreams and our desires and and not wanting to pick them up and and and and and not trying to crawl back on the throne and declare that we're lord over our lives in control. And so surrender is really really just full of things that we have to actively do in our hearts and in our lives every single day by. Is trusting in with the outcome by. Being content in the season that you're at and and being faithful to what he has called you to today that's active but then also trusting him because i think sometimes we think well i don't i just i'm going to wait around for what god has for me in my life but god doesn't want you to wait around because he's giving you everything you need in his word to follow him so. I think when we know that surrender is not that white flag where i'm like okay i'm just going to sit here and i'm going to wait for you to take me home not going to do anything it's like no like pick up your cross like deny yourself and follow jesus because that's the abundant life that he came to give in john 10:10. You mentioned contentment a huge word and i know we each have our stories i'm thinking of a lot of women and the girl to find sisterhood who are single longing for marriage they're in that season other women who struggle with chronic illness you mentioned that women who are married who are like me longing for children or maybe their moms already and they're longing for something else they're just they feel like they're in this crazy season they're trying to trust god with just the little tiny daily tasks of being a mom i'm thinking of the college girl who struggling to know what direction she should take with her future so how for each of these women i know we all have our own and there's so many other things i can mention so many other scenarios areas of surrender how do we pursue contentment when we're in a place of longing. I love that we are talking about this because. Contentment and surrender are really intertwined whether you realize realize it or not and i even personally for me to be super candid with all of you guys and kristen like i'm going through a season where i'm really trying to be content with our living situation and don't get me wrong it's beautiful it's incredible but i see all of our friends buying houses and and honestly not even our friends that are like someone like in our stage of life they're like older right so they've had more time to do all the things and save so it's not realistic for me to compare but i've been comparing a lot and feeling discontent with where i am at and i've had to be really checked by my husband and by the lord to be like i have blessed you so much here and there might be reasons that i'm making you wait for certain things but are unseen right now. And so to the person who's you know maybe feeling discontent and feeling like. God's timing is too slow and i really want to control to get to the next season. I just want to encourage you that. There is a lot of good here and there's a lot of things that god is. Working on you right now like i love to think of a plant analogy where. We first have to go down in our roots before we can grow up. Plants need to be buried even 6 in lower than the surface i come from like a farming family so i have all this like technology but like you can't just play on the surface your plant has to go even 68 in deeper than the soil so that the roots spread out further that way you can grow stronger and that takes season. That takes time like you look at a tree you look at a plant you're like wow is established like i feel like it happened overnight but like these trees are years and years and years old. And so i think knowing like. I think even if you don't believe it cuz it's really hard in the day-to-day to believe that god is doing something in your waiting and in your discontentment but. I would just encourage you to rehearse versus and promises of god over you and tell your heart to believe it i have to preach to myself and even begrudgingly i'm going to be honest i have to be like okay lord what is your word say i have some verses memorize i'm going to say it i don't believe this right now but lord help me to believe and there's something powerful about even if you don't believe even if you're in a bad mood even if you're discontent that the truth of god will wash over you. So i don't know that's something practical i have been trying to do in my season of wrestling with some discontentment. It's so hard to slow down it's so hard to trust god with the here and now because our timeline i know for me i can speak personally like you know you get almost weary of praying of like lord i pray for this for so long and something that god is really helped me grow in is that he doesn't promise me a yes at the end of this prayer even you know for me it's like over a decade of praying for certain things. Still it's not a guarantee that at some point god is going to say yes and answer this right here. You know give me what i'm asking for this thing that i'm saying lord i say in scripture children are here just from the lord and he's blessed us with two boys through adoption which has been incredible you just give some blessings in my life outside of salvation and my husband but there's still that longing of like wow lord you know i would love to be able to experience pregnancy and have a biological child and like just that whole process like i still long for that and pray for that but at the same time i've had to come to the place a total surrender of continuing to pray for this and i know a lot of our sisterhood can relate of knowing. You promise me is that i can find contentment in you and one of the scriptures that has been so key for me and this is isaiah 26:3 which says. You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you and it's just that i quote that to myself all the time and have to realign my heart my emotions my feelings. Getting what i want from my circumstances changing but it ultimately comes from god he gives peace as we set our heart on him. That's where our peace comes from it comes from him it's not something we can manifest it's not something we can force it's not something we can just say like okay i'm going to be peaceful like no it comes as we trust him as we surrender he gives that to us so how do we slow down. Walk with god trusting his timing trusting the end result whatever that may be instead of rushing ahead of him and trying to control things and get what we want right now. Best question ever because i struggle with it so much i struggle with even just personally just having such a go-getter spirit thinking. Well i can do it so why don't i do it but i have this realization kristen like maybe a year ago and it was just like i was just spending time with the lord and the word and was thinking about this waiting idea and he just spoke something over me i just remember writing it down i know it was a spirit it was an audible but it was a spirit just telling me. Just because you can do something right now doesn't mean that you should. Just because we have the ability to do something in a moment just because you are you know you have a gifting or calling or strength for it doesn't necessarily mean that that means god tells you to go now and do it. And so in the book there's a chapter about walking at god's place because. We have to realize that when we surrender to god. Let me give him full control of our lives that also includes the timing of our lives and. We know that god's will prevails no matter what we do that he he is good he is above our circumstances that nothing can thwart his plans were told that in scripture but i also do believe that we can. Kind of rush ahead of what he wants it's not going to really change. You know his fixed will. But it is going to kind of change what he wants to do in our waiting. And so i i look at my life and i'm like i actually don't want to mess with he's doing but so often i'm so. Encapsulated by the world and by hustle culture. And just telling us to keep going and to never stop and to work yourself until you're burnt out. And then honestly like business is this badge of honor and so i've been really challenged even myself through writing surrender your story about walking at god's pace and. Learning that patience is actually it's not a poison it's actually a prize in jesus christ and. There's no verses and and scriptures in god's word that tells us that patient is a puzzle piece that god didn't like say oh you need to be patient because you know i just i just think it'd be funny for you to wait like he had a plan for patients to actually produce some really cool things in our lives. You know things that like we never maybe never would have happened in our lives if we didn't wait like i think of joseph's life i think of. So he had a promise just like we have promises in jesus christ eternally fixed for us in heaven he had a promise for his life but god took all these detours and routes and he had to wait he had to suffer injustice and pain and her and all these things but god produced his character you see over and over again in that endogenesis and joseph story that god produced his character that he helped him to remain steadfast and faithful and so i think if you're in the middle of a waiting season and you're wondering if it's worth it just to stop and and wait on god and not try to you know grasp control and russia head. I want to ask you if it's worth it to miss out on what god is going to do and you're waiting. Is it worth it for you to take control and push ahead or is it more worth it for you to see the sanctification and the growth that he's going to do in the waiting because a lot of times that waiting prepares us for what's next and chris and i don't know if you can relate and i'm sure you can that the waiting the super long season of waiting for your two boys there was so much that god did in you although painful at times to prepare you to be a mom to them and these unlike you unlikely circumstances. Yes there's an analogy that we talked about in our book not part of the plan of like our life for us our vantage point is like looking through a straw so like imagine holding up a straw and looking around like how much would you be able to see not much like a tiny little picture of what's right in front of you but god is the master artist he is the painter he has the plan from the beginning to the end he's leaving all things together for our good in his glory he's not looking through a straw he sees everything he sees the complete picture and so that analogy is so helpful for me just to remember like. I when i trust in my circumstances when i trust in my own abilities when i when i get fixated on what's right in front of me i'm completely missing the fact and forgetting that the god who holds all things in his hands and is working them out for my good my sanctification growing my character allowing my circumstances my low points my values to be used as a ministry than for others the way god is growing me in that and remembering that he holds all things together he sees the bigger picture that's the god we're trusting in and it's easy to forget and almost projects like our limitations on to god like he has the same vantage points but he doesn't write like he sees everything and that's the god that we're putting our trust in. It's so good i think of proverbs 3:5-6 one of my favorite verses i know super dear to you guys and and your story and not part of the plan but i love when jesus when solomon says in proverbs 3 that when we trust in the lord that he will make straight our past and i think that a lot of us can look at our story and think my story is is far from straight. That there are u-turns and curves and there's bumps along the way and it just looks like this messy like yarn ball of just madness and i just can't see how god is going to make it straight but i think the really cool thing about when god's or when solomon says that god will make our paths straight. Is that we can have all of these divots and curves in our story cuz we all do but god redeems them. And to god. It was his plan all along it was his straight clear path all along it's just that we don't see it that way. I love how you said it that we just need to. Trust that god has the perfect vantage point in the perfect perspective. Even if we don't. How you mentioned this earlier but give us a few more practical tips on how we can walk in surrender and dependence on god on a daily basis like. Like you said early on in this conversation i wish surrender was just a one-time thing like lord i surrendered forever and ever amen or surrendered were peaceful we're trusting but we all know that's not how it works so give us a few more practical tips even what god has done in your life for each of us in our seasons of struggle the areas in our lives were struggling to trust god with struggling to surrender how can we continue to rely on him and depend on him on a daily basis yeah i can think of two things there are so many but the first things that kind of my mind one is a big theological ones like a smaller every day one but the big theological ones impacts are every day and that is getting to know god i don't know you know wherever you come from and you in your walk with the lord whether you're brand new or whether you've known him for your whole life that. There is always something we can learn about god and and for me coming from a home that i've always known the bible i haven't really known god fully until you know in my twenties my my like into college years like end of high school when i really was like i need to get to know the character of god because here's the thing if you don't know who god is if you don't know his qualities how he's proven himself in the past and when he promises in the future. What i mean by that is how can you possibly trust someone that you don't know. How can you possibly give your life to someone that that you think is a. Mean vindictive ghost in the clouds and this ambiguous like i don't even know if he's real kind of guy you can't surrender your life to someone that you don't. And so how do you get to know god. You look at his word you read from the front of the bible to the back of the bible you read the god of the old testament and you read the god of the new we learn about jesus christ who came down part of the trinity who is god himself. When you get to know who he says he is good loving we have a whole chapter on this which i only scratched the surface on characteristics but. So my favorite things about god and his heart because the more i've learned that god is truly good mainly and that god has truly loving and he's full of grace that really helps me to surrender. So if you're just like i don't think i can do it maybe check your view of god and check. How you see him and what you know about him. And i think the smaller everyday things that definitely are still influenced by that big overarching thing is to practice the surrender muscle so practice it in your the small things and your day and your to-do list and also the really big things so. Even just for example today we have some friends coming over tonight and i have this goal to make strawberry shortcake for dessert okay and that's my goal but my mom is bringing my son home in an hour and i have a few other things to do he's napping you know nap sometimes you never know and so i'm like okay that's my plan. But i'm going to hold at least like i'm going to try but if it doesn't happen i'm not going to stress myself out because i'm the type of person that have something doesn't happen. Within my within my power i mean then i start to like stress myself out and i'm like well everything's not perfect but i just can't do it. But even the smallest things like strawberry shortcake to the biggest things like your relationship like other things in your life but. I really believe the more we practice it even in the things that seem meaningless like dessert for dinner actually really helps you overall girl did you need to bring that conviction on my heart right now that is so good same though same it's like yes and amen the little things building those the muscles of surrender it is it's not just the huge thing about the everyday little things that help us remember who's ultimately in control who were ultimately serving who's kingdom world to me building with even the little things don't go our way realigning our hearts that is so good okay i promised in the intro that we would get to these like huge questions that there have been massive theological books written on but we're just gonna write on them god's will like these are humongous questions but i know you talk about them in your book and i just want like you know a short answer and then everybody can go buy the book to get like the the bigger version but it's such like a hot button question like god's will how to know it how to find it and there are a lot of unbiblical i believe sources out there that aren't theologically sound offering advice when it comes to this question but as you study god's word god's word how do we know god's we're going to start with their how can we know god's plan for our life. That's the biggest thing because when we say we surrender our stories and then pick up gods instead we're like well then what's god. Plan for my life on spotify how do i find it so the first thing we need to understand is that god's will is multifaceted it's. God's plan for our lives god's plan for humanity god's rescue story for humanity is god's word what is revealed to us and there's also certain things that belong just to god that is closed just to his heart. And i think when we talked about god's will we often don't like celebrate the fact that god has given us the bible where like well why has god not told me everything why are there things that he has kept close to his heart. And we feel like it's a scavenger hunt that i just need to climb the next rung of the ladder or like god's withholding from me but we're focusing on the wrong things because god has given us everything we need second peter 1:3 one of my favorite verses that says god has given us everything we need for life and godlin. Just left us empty-handed but there are certain things because god is god and we're not and also i think if we knew everything out i know we would explode like we would literally explode yes if we knew the knowledge of god but god's plan for your life is found in scripture. There are big overarching things that apply to me and kristen and all of us in the same way as believers but there's also smaller smaller things like our purposes the same but are callings are different but you're calling can be like you can find your calls within scripture if that makes sense within your purpose your overarching purpose in christ so. That's maybe not that short of an answer but yeah. Yeah that's really helpful so piggybacking on that and then we'll wrap it up here. How do we make decisions that are in alignment with a surrendered life. Yes yes okay. We did a whole section on this because decisions are really hard to make if we want to be sought out to and sold out for surrender we want to make decisions that obviously are from that yielded spirit and not a controlling spirit so we have a section where i give some practical i'll give you just a few today so you can read the whole whole chapter in the book yeah but when we talk about making decisions some really easy ones if you're facing a big decision whether that's who do i marry or what school do i go to or even a small decision in your day-to-day life a couple things is just really obvious and it's a really good mental question to ask yourself and is it is it a sin is it something that god's word says no. So let's say oh yeah like i would really like to move in with my boyfriend and you know and you know give him husband privileges and things like that before it's like well what does god say about that okay that's the first thing that came to my mind but we know. We know those things. Okay so if it is a sin then that's not a good decision for me to make some of those are really hard because we fight with our flesh but that's a really good check and then another thing as far as making even a decision about who you marry about college as you as you mother your children whatever that looks like is to assess your gifts and your callings so a lot of times god aligns a lot of the things that we say yes to and the decisions we make with how he's gifted us so. Get to know your strengths get to know your spiritual gifts and callings because a lot of times god wants to exercise that through the decisions in the past we take in life so those are just two things that kind of help me when i think about how i make decisions both in the big and the small. That's so helpful tara thank you for sharing your wisdom with us thank you for writing this book thank you for encouraging me today in this conversation and i know every sister that listened is going to walk away with some encouragement but they're going to want more so where can they find your book and i'll give the full name again to render your story ditch the myth of control and discover freedom and trusting christ so where can they follow you and find you and then is your book available everywhere i'm guessing. Yes book is available anywhere books are sold everyone's favorite place amazon. Christian book barnes & noble all the places you can also just go to surrender your story.com and there's a free chapter if you just kind of want to get a peek and then and then buy the whole thing and then there's a discussion guys you can do it in community which is really fun or you can just do it by yourself journal which has been really really cool for many but yeah you can follow me on social media at miss tara son on instagram and then i have a podcast called truth talks with tara and i actually have a really cool episode that will be like a cool partner episode that i did with kristen i think a year ago on my podcast about trusting god so go listen to that one go find it oh that's awesome yes that's right as we close i would love to just do one thing in this just came to mind but. Would you pray for the sisters listening right now and especially those who are really struggling with something they know what it is god knows what it is just pray over them that they would see the beauty and surrendering their story to him yes i would love to i would love to. Dear lord thank you so much for our sisters thank you for kristen thank you for going to find thank you for this opportunity to sit together to go along this day together and get to talk about surrender and trust lord. We know that this is hard we know it's difficult you you know that too you know that what you call this to is lofty but what you also promised is that we don't have to do the surrender on our own that. The holy spirit empowers us to do this task. And so the one who doesn't feel like surrender is worth it lord. I just pray that you would do a work in their hearts to show them that when you ask them to surrender their lives when you asked them to lay down their dreams and desires and plans that you don't ask them to do that without anything in return what you promised is the abundant life that you have always proven time and time and again to give to the one that you love lord i pray that you would just. Just come alongside us as we learn how to trust thank you for your grace as we make mistakes along the way i pray that we would all just learn how to trust you deeply practice those surrender muscles in the in the big and the small things and i just really pray a blessing over those listening that they would see the fruit and the reward of letting you have the steering wheel of your life or of their lives and letting you have control of their stories and show them more like you promised in ephesians 3 that what you have planned is a measurably and abundantly more than we could ever ask imagine or think lord jesus thank you so much for your promises and for who you are to us lord we love you and your name amen. Thank you so much for being with us today tara and for all of your super sweet and biblical helpful theology and encouragement. Thank you friend love you so much. Wow what an encouraging episode with tara i am so grateful for her wisdom and just encouragement in this area of surrender i hope you guys found it helpful found an encouraging hope filled and if you stuck with us all the way till the end and you remember at the beginning of this episode i promise you guys a free resource and here it is so one of the things that helped me the most during some of my darkest seasons of struggling with infertility recurrent miscarriage it was actually about eight years into my marriage when i experienced my third miscarriage after years of infertility and that i felt. Devastated in one of the darkest. Honestly of my entire life. To this day and the thing that got me out of the pit the thing that helped me the most is this resource that we created and it's 30 days of praying the names and attributes of god and what helped me was just taking one name one attribute of god each day during that dark season looking at that attribute that name reading the scripture for where that's found in the bible and then. Help me to believe this is true about your character help me to believe this is who you are this is who you say you are help me to trust in you and the more i got to know god like tara even mentioned in this conversation earlier we can't place our trust in someone we don't know so the more i got to know god over the 30 days of praying through his names are not an attributes and the more i was able to fully trust him and get out of that dark pit and find hope and find light and find truth and find freedom in him so if that sounds like a resource that would be helpful for you it's just a one-page pdf that you can print up it's beautiful put it on your wall keep it in your bible. You can find it for free and download it at girl defined.com slash god. Girl to find.com and also guys is always sisterhood we love you and if you appreciate the girl to find show please head on over to spotify or apple and just quickly drop us a five-star review give us some feedback you know what you love about the show any future guess you want us to have on any topics you want us to cover we read all of those and they're really helpful and really encouraging and if you guys want to hang out with us and talk more about this episode ask questions dialogue about it i would love to come hang out with us over on instagram girl define and then join us next week for another episode of the girl to find show. 