We have a super special treat for you guys seriously this is probably my favorite episode today i had the most incredible conversation with jp pachuta author of outdated find love that lasts when dating has changed and you guys i asked him the hard questions we went to places that i know you want to go where you're like we need biblical wisdom and insight in this how do we think about this whole modern dating thing dating isn't mentioned in the bible how are we supposed to view it today i asked him how women know if they have the gift of singleness we talked about what to look for in a guy how to know if he's a leader what about online dating or how much weight should attraction play in a romantic relationship or what about this you're dating a guy and you find out that he's struggling with porn what should you do should you break up what if you're struggling with poor and how do you battle sexual compromise in your relationship we talked about red flags and so much more you guys are not going to be able to turn this episode off because it is jammed packed with goodness so get your seat belts on let's go this is going to be a conversation you do not want to miss what's up everybody it is kristen and oh my goodness do i have an amazing show for you guys today you may recognize this man right here jp pluto we are going to be talking about all things. Relationships dating singleness sexuality in a relationship struggles pornography what if you've never been asked on a date so many questions that you girls email us every single day and jp i will tell you that relationships romance guys all of the things around that are that's probably the number one question that we get in our email inbox and so i know our community of women are going to be. And i know that you've helped just so many people around the country. On these topics so i'm excited to jump in with you like rice okay i have to ask you straight off the bathroom cuz we get this question. All the time on social media and it's single girls emailing us or dming us and saying. Are they asking are there any godly guys left in this world because i can't find them so what do you say to those girls know there are there there are god. Men in this world but i mean if it feels like a needle in the haystack it's a little bit that way i mean. Most of the men in the world are not following jesus and so again if it feels that way that's because that's reality. And so i was just say don't lower your standards. Lengthen your patience. And i don't mean for that in any way to insinuate a lack of empathy towards that girl that is waiting and has been waiting and waiting and waiting and. I just all i mean by that is don't compromise like. Desires you if he desires marriage for you he desires you to be married to someone who is well married to him. That guy may be challenging to find but there are some things that you can do. That that makes it a little easier one of them is not compromised too is is be around and in places where those guys hang out. And and so you you know but they are there just to answer the question directly yes we're going to take a little bit more into that later what can girls do to express interest or say hey like i want to get married what can i don't go there yet though cuz that i know so many girls asked that question too so many women want to know like is there anything i can do besides. Just waiting in the sense of like trust in the lord yes but any steps we can take proactively this whole topic is something we are really passionate about here at girl defined and i know you are too obviously with your book outdated which i encourage every single person watching and listening go grab a copy. You will not regret it it is phenomenal it is so good go grab it and then we wrote our book love to find which is geared toward what is for women. Navigating this whole path but what like why did you write this book why did you write a book about love dating relationships for the modern young person. Yes i live in a young adult ministry which was predominantly single and so tens of thousands of. Single people that i gathered with every tuesday. And some and i did that for over a decade and so much of ministry kristen is just pattern recognition and so i see i had a front row seat. Of boy meets girl i saw the relationships come together i saw the ones that were wildly successful i ended up doing some of their weddings and i saw the ones that crashed and burned. And i saw some of the hurts habits and hang ups that would just drag people down. And so you just start writing down those patterns and then as you observe them and as i was spend time in god's word. I really saw the brilliance of god's word that would speak into how relationships should form obviously genesis to revelation in the bible. Dating start in there anywhere and so just like to ruin the punchline if someone's like where is dating in the bible it's it's not in there not anywhere but god does speak a ton of wisdom. Into relationships how to form relationships how to keep relationships and how do you know be married well. And so if we take those principles and we begin to apply them you know they work their their timeless they're tried and true. And so that's that was along with that pattern recognition. Being documented that's really how this book outdated. Was found and and i saw that you know dating really was changing it with with the invention of dating apps the statistics around marriage people are getting married less married later and marriage isn't lasting. And as i thought about hey i want to change the world i want to impact this world for jesus. What do i have to offer and i realize well. It's really if we can change the family unit like if we can catch. A person when boy meets girl or before that moment and help them avoid some of the things that seeks to destroy their marriage long before they ever have ever met their prospect. That may be my greatest opportunity to change the world for the cause of christ. Biblical worldview was this something you had when you were dating or is this post marriage for you. The great question know the answer is no. And i want to say that with with an explanation and a disclaimer. The explanation is i didn't come to know jesus until after college and so i was raised in the church i went to a parochial or church school for 9 years but college for me you know they say drug sex and rock and roll in my case drug sex and hip hop i just i partied my mind out and and i had no idea how to treat a woman and i really i was addicted to pornography grew up a. Sexual addiction into my adult years. And so when i met my wife neither of us were pursuing jesus and then i was at a club 20 years ago and someone invited me to a church. I sat in the back row hungover. And christ just invaded my life. And change everything about me especially how i dated and then i was really married. Shortly thereafter. So huge heart for this is to help people avoid the mistakes. I made and some people will say will you you got to you know quote unquote so you're wild oats or treat yourself or you know do what you want to do is like man i did and i have scars and if i had to do over i certainly wouldn't i would i would do things way different i would if i had a do-over today. I would follow the outdated. Play book or love defined playbook. Do you know to achieve because i want god's best and the reality is i have consequences that i've invited in my life because of the way that i lived and and they're not the things that you would think of. They're they're the fact that you know for a long time. In my marriage like we we threw around the word divorce cuz i didn't know how to love a woman or be committed to her. I had i had a. Addiction to variety through pornography so i didn't know how to be satisfied by one woman and all of these things. That that the world is just normal in the world which is why divorce is normal in the world. And so i want i want something better for your listeners then even what i have and i love it you are saying that looking back on your own journey of seeing god's grace in your story from before you were married to after cuz i know there are women watching and listening who are thinking well am i just too far gone is there any redemption in my story for the mistakes i've made i see it more clearly now but is there a book called i can walk that will lead to yes there are consequences but will lead to a place a freedom and hope and a beautiful christ centered marriage and i see that in your marriage with you and your wife monica and i think that testimony alone brings so much hope to a person looking on. And the enemy is going to tell you no. So anytime you hear you can't or accusations you're ruined you're not good enough hey look at prom night look at the abortion look at that look what you did here. That is the accuser like that's the language that he speaks he wants to keep you. In that prison of shame. But jesus came so that we would find freedom he seeks to steal kill and destroy christ has come so that we might have life and have it abundantly or have it to the fullest as john 10:10. Been so absolutely and no one that is listening i don't care what you've done or where you been i don't care how many people you've killed. I don't care how many men you slept with i don't care how many videos you've shot like anything right. You are not ruined like god can take your mess and make it your message and even your ministry and i am absolutely living proof like when somebody comes up and tells me that god can't forgive them i'm like look i'm the preacher on the stage i'm i'm the one talking to you and teaching you the bible. And i'm the i'm the chief of all sinners like paul was you know who who by the way killed women and children and became the greatest missionary of all time. And and the other message that's important is it might be work. I mean it's going to be surrender but you don't want to be like an ostrich and just like bury your head in the sand and isolate and get by yourself like you need to you need to take steps forward you need to seek recovery you need to heal. Don't keep secrets you know like if there's abuse their talk about it find someone that you can trust that you can talk about it with or people that you can trust. That you can talk about it with and begin to tell your story and god the holy spirit will heal you and give you a path forward he really will but there are steps that you need to take. In doing so. Brian gets around yourself with believers and invite them into the broken parts of your story. For sure so what would you say is. The biggest problems with modern dating i know that's a huge emphasis in your book is a better way. So what would you say looking on and having worked with so many single people and continue to minister to them. What do you say what are some of the biggest pitfalls of modern dating today. Yeah i want to be. Honest and and say i don't think it's just a little broken. I think we're really off when you say modern dating and so. I i really believe that the way we date today does not trained us or prepare us for a healthy marriage it trains a systematically for divorce. Because since the fifth grade. We get in a relationship you know we go to dances everybody's talking about you know who likes who and you know. Dating who and whose girlfriend and boyfriend and whatever. We're in a relationship with them until we don't like them anymore and then we end it right or until our emotions are our feelings of fate and then we end it. This is like divorce 101 like if i was going to brainwash somebody toward how to have a divorce later in life you really would just have them date the way that we do. And and so i think that's. Like you wouldn't even think that cuz it's so it's the way you naturally. So number one we trained for divorce number two we have really bad advisors. And so it's like if i if i'm taking. Advice from. Like if i wanted to learn how to swim. Alright i'm not going to talk to somebody who's never been in the pool or or doesn't know how to swim or they're afraid of the water right they're not going to be my swimming instructor. And likewise if i'm trying to figure out how to be married well i'm not going to take advice from someone who's been divorced time and time and time again. And we like hollywood and the media are our biggest instructors on how to be married it's movies and shows like the bachelor and it has a terrible hit rate and you know out of. You know 40-something shows you're talking about. 17 relationships that exists and we don't know the health of of many of those. It's just not a good ratio it's not a good statistic and yet that's who's telling us here's how to here's how to date and here's how to be married. And so we have really bad advisors. And then lastly i would just say what's wrong with dating today is we prioritize the wrong things and so it is you know it's love at first sight physical attraction is ultimate it's all about chemistry and and common interest and. Those kinds of things and those you know charms deceitful proverbs 31:30 says charms deceitful. Beauty is fleeting but a woman who fears the lord is to be praised. And so those are depreciating assets and so we in we put all of the value on things that are fleeting and going away so that when we get in the relationship. And we're both shallow. And those things start to fade there's nothing left to hold us together we don't really like the other person we don't like their character they're not a woman or a person or a man of noble character we liked his charm we liked her beauty. And when that fades there's nothing left. And so i think we have to. Learn to invest or value in the right things take counsel from the right places and then really learn to date different than the world does that's so good you and your wife have been married for 15 16 years 17 years 1717 and that initial attraction. The hottest person on the planet it's like okay why are all of the celebrities getting divorced like if it's just about chemistry and attraction like. Something's not working we need a better way so this is a loaded question it's a huge question give us your best like national answer i'm bringing all the hard stuff for you. What is a better way look what is a biblical way you said earlier dating isn't in the bible so some of our listeners are like okay so is dating even the right way to go about this what is a christ honoring way to pursue relationships in today's day and age. Yeah dating you know dating is is a relatively new idea it's about 120 years old. The word entered the english language as a euphemism for prostitution true story people don't realize that to go on a date and to exchange sexual favors for an experience which honestly that's the root of the word and still very much the way that the world. Dates and and so i'm not trying to kiss dating goodbye like i'm not trying to get rid of it. It's here and it's it's the way that our culture finds a spouse. And so i would just try to redeem it or you might say define it correctly and just to say okay so what is it look like for me to. Know what i'm looking for. Like i'm never like if monica sends me to the grocery store for milk. I'm not going to. Walk in the you know refrigerator section. Open the refrigerator door. And stare at all the milk options and just say you know how do i feel. You know which which milk do i feel like it's like is best she's going to say you need to get this brand. 2% organic you know blue label red cap. Then i'm going to look at that description and i'm going to look at the the types of milk and i'm going to commit to the one that matches the description of what i'm looking for. So first like know what you're looking for. Don't just don't kind of get there and say well i just know when i know and it's all about how i feel i'm going to follow my emotions. Because all we've done is followed our emotions in and out of a relationship so step one you have to know what you're looking for which is really to understand. You know god's desire for us and then and then step two as as i know what i'm looking for it's like okay. Where should i look like where am i going to find the the type of person that i'm looking for and then step three bring other people into that relationship like have community and others speaking into that. And and helping advise me so that when my heart you know just gets away from me that i know like hey is this. The part of my heart that's controlled by the spirit or is this the is this me following my emotions and the feelings and and all of those. Those kinds of things and then really and this is the one that usually surprises people. Is date for as little time as possible like how long is it going to take me to determine. If they meet this criteria and really as i go on a date with them i'm just trying to confirm that they are who i think they are if you will yeah i've heard you say that dating is the job interview and marriage is the job i love the way you face that what does that mean i'm packed us for unpacked up. Yeah and so it's just like. You you go into the job interview. Your nicest. Dress you got your resume folder you don't walk in the office and say hey let me tell you everything wrong with me. You know you say hey here's why i'm going to be best for this job and you probably have gotten jobs that you didn't enjoy or that you aren't good at. And that you struggled in right and and maybe because you over sold yourself or they didn't ask the right questions who knows. But who wants to stay in interview mode. Alright you're in that interview because you want to get the job and the job is the commitment like that's where the the benefit comes comes into play like that's where you become a part of the company if you will and and you can really use your guess what the same way i mean dating is the interview and and then dating people put their best foot forward they usually don't lead with hey here's all the things that are wrong with me here's the baggage that i'm bringing into this relationship know they try to look their best and be on their best behavior. And so in that interview i'm just trying to find out who are they really. And and so that i can get the job because the job is when we're committed to each other and we're protected and there's no shame in it safe and and we can begin to experience the benefits of of a of an intimate relationship and and grow a family and all of those. The three categories singleness dating and married. Dating is the worst of the three. You know that that's the one i would do for the littlest amount of time singleness your uninhibited 1 corinthians 7 says you know you're not concerned about the affairs of marriage. And the married you get to enjoy intimacy and grow family. And and those things. Dating it's it's just. It's not it's not the benefits of either one of them it's okay i'm in a relationship so it's like you're stuck in between land yeah that's exactly like just get. Get on either side of it it's going to be so much better how does a woman know if she has the gift of singleness i've heard you talk about this and i love the way you approached this question. I would say. The majority of our listeners are probably single and if you're married and you're still with us i am so glad because this is great content for you to know how to speak into the lives of your single sisters your sisters your cousins your friends like this is such a good biblical truth. But for the girl who's like i'm getting older i am single i long for marriage but how do i know if. Maybe god has a gift of singleness for me yes i can tell you with one question 100% accuracy. If someone has the gift of singleness and so again i'm just i've done. Add done singles ministry for over a decade i've gotten really good at this. And i've never missed it i've never been wrong one time in my entire life i can i can tell you all of your listeners because i heard they're listening to this podcast they are about to find out. With 100% accuracy whether they have the gift of singleness or not and it's really it's not even a quiz it's just one question. And here is the question. Did you. Wake up or i'll just say this right now. Single. And if the answer is yes. Then you have the gift of singleness. And we always think about the gift of singleness of some sort of terminal calling or chronic situation it's like know that the bible does not speak to it. That way it's like if i'm single today then how do i use that gift today because every james tells us every good and perfect gift. Comes from the father of heavenly lights. God only gives good gifts to his children that's matthew 7. And so if if i have a gift from god i should assume that it's good and for the purpose for the purposes of god. Right and so i should ask him how do you want me to use this gift now i don't know if i'm going to be single tomorrow next month or two years from now but i know that today that i'm single so i shouldn't resent the gift. That i should look to use the gift i shouldn't try to you know seek to lose the gift but understand how i can use the gift. Jesus says paul says the single this is a gift in 1st corinthians chapter 7. We should trust god's word but he's really plagiarizing the words of jesus in matthew 19. Where jesus says that there are some who are celibate for the sake of the kingdom. She says not everyone can accept this but those who can should. For the sake of the kingdom what does it look like for me to be single. For the sake of the kingdom and that's really what it means to use the gift. I asked i have some younger girls that i'm mentor and regularly i'll ask them what is true for today. Like what is true in your life for today and what is god calling you to walk in faithfully today and i love the way you put that because it does it brings so much purpose like yes i have this gift today that is true. Okay i'm going to grow in embracing this as a gift but it's really hard. Is there anything i can do as a single woman. I'm interested or to say like hey i'm single and i really want to get married. What can she do yeah absolutely. Yeah i would just say if you want to let a guy know you're interested. You can tell him you're interested so i don't know how you feel about that. It can be controversial. But if you want my opinion. I just see like in romans 12 like love must be sincere. And i you know i've been a part of messages i've even said things in the past that i probably disagree with now it's like hey you can. You can do things to let him know you're interested you can you know. But i just like you could say hey you know if you ever wanted to ask me out i would say yes i don't know i don't i don't know i don't see that biblically condemned personally. So i love that and i think a lot of girls are probably shouting amen right now what about for the girl who is feeling like marriage has become an idol. What would you say manipulate she wants to get what she wants to get it may not be god's timing. What would you say to her. Yeah and so i would say like that is i do think that is the challenge. And so i'm going to speak in some generalities which is dangerous because i think it's easy for people to feel misunderstood but i'm i'm speaking. General terms and certainly there are exceptions. What is his his his his his his his biggest struggle and you know maybe it's pride but a lot of times it's lust. He he has this is where he's gotten tripped up. Certainly struggle with less that's absolutely true but if i was to stereotype or generalize. The what i see it most often is control. It's like hey they want to control the situation. And that's where you want to just test your heart and say hey am i trying to control the situation am i being sincere you know what what am i doing when i when i like this guy. And as you talk about making marriage and idol. Do we need to understand. That god made us very programmable beings. And there is a real cost to driving down the road and feeding our heart with our thoughts over and over and over and so you think it's innocent. To be like gosh. I really like john. And john and i's kids would be so attractive and we would name them tyler and you know preston and. And finley and and you start and and i bet we'd have a dog and the dog will be a german shepherd and a white picket fence and will live in the suburbs and you go there in your mind and that seems so innocent but it's not innocent because it's feeding. Yeah i know i know and it's but you're feeding your heart something. And you begin to live in this in this hypothetical. I'm going to say reality and quotes because it's not a reality. And then you you feed that idle and that idle grows and then before you know it ladies you are mourning the breakup of a relationship that never happened. John didn't even know you were interested. John didn't know you were dating in your pretend world. And all of a sudden john's dating mary or jennifer or kimberly. And and you're devastated. Because in your heart you were married to john and y'all had two kids named tyler and preston and a german shepherd and a white picket fence and he didn't know it. And so you got to be careful i would give. Your thoughts of 24-hour boundaries like live in the presence not in the future. And and just say okay what is reality and the reality is. I'm attracted to john. John doesn't know i'm alive you know i don't know what it is i'm not trying to insult you in this hypothetical scenario but but you should know what is reality. And keep a death grip on reality. And and if you get to a place where you like you know what i'm in a healthy place to date i'm interested in this guy. I don't know if he's interested in me. And i don't want to spend a lot of time wondering. I may just ask him. There's also nothing wrong with you saying you know what i'm not going to ask him because. I'm going to see if if he takes initiative. I will say this right here sometimes you are choosing your problems when you take initiative. You know you may not get to see how much initiative he's willing to take meaning he might be really apathetic in life. And not have a lot of ambition or drive. And that may be why he didn't ask you out or take the first step. And and so in doing so you might be choosing your problems you need to be aware of that i'm going to i want to want to find out if i'm that girl and i say hey i'm interested in dating you if you'd ever want to ask me out i'd say yes. And then we go on a date i'm going to find out hey did he just. Not know like did he not notice me until then. Or does he lack ambition i'm going to want to know the answer to that. Yeah that's so good i'm so glad you brought clarity on that cuz i know every woman i talked to who single she's like yeah i want the guy to be able to lead like i want him to be able to lead in a relationship to lead spiritually if we do get married someday that's hugely important for me so for the woman looking on what are some. Signs that he is a leader that he is taking initiative what should she be looking for i always say leaders remove confusion. And and so ladies you know you wonder a lot like you just you wonder if he's going to text you if he's going to call you wonder if there's going to be a second date you wonder how interested he is you wonder where this is going you wonder when you're going to get married. And so if if he's a leader. He's going to not let you wonder he's going to be really intentional with you and say hey i really enjoyed tonight. I would like to do this again i'm going to call you tomorrow afternoon you know he's just going to remove some of that confusion. I think another thing that. That he's going to initiate on is just impurity right and so if his hand is moving toward anything other than a ring right it's like that that's a guy that's probably not controlled. By the holy spirit. And as you spend time with him like one of the things that you're going to see. Is is his constraint like his willingness to say man i feel all of these things for you. But i i don't want to act out on those and dishonor you and sometimes ladies are like gosh does he even like me because you're used to guys showing you. Their affection through physical touch. And he's trying to fight you know his his feelings have lost and and then that battle it can create some confusion and so he might say listen i'm very much physically attracted to you but i also want to be careful because i know that left to my own. Selfish desires i would go much further with you physically than god intends for me too. And even those kinds of having them had to have the maturity to have those kinds of conversations. Is is amazing and so those are that would be the kind of guy. That i would be looking for someone that initiate aids like that. Yes yes that's so good. And it's not perfection it's direction we say that regularly girls are like. Moving in the right direction who's genuinely seeking the lord repentant when he sends like. My husband and i meant were a lot of younger couples it's so fun we love it we've done some premarital counseling and time and time again i feel like the thing that trips up these young christian couples who we know they genuinely want to honor the lord they desire that but they they just keep getting tripped up by sexual. Intentionally dating you know hoping to get married what would you say to young couples what can they do to fight this cuz it does seem so so hard. Yeah you know one thing that we both agreed on earlier it's just like date for as you know efficiently and effectively as you can like it's. It's a good thing that you guys want to come together physically like that's a great thing. And so your body was made to do that god wired you to do that. And and you really don't want to restrain that for like 3 or 4 or 5 years like people tell me what we've been dating for 4 years and that sounds miserable why. Would you do that like even if you've been successful. In restraining your physical desires you're not supposed to like you're not supposed to be able to go that long and so. I'm not a fan of of dating for a really long time. That where you are really matters. And so i don't know of anyone that has you know. Struggled with sexual sin. In the middle of starbucks or at the mall right it's it's always where we are watching this romantic comedy and we are laying down on her couch and her apartment and her roommate was gone. That's more than half the battle. Don't don't date alone in places where there's no accountability. And then that word accountability i mean have. Have sisters that will ask you like girls in your life. That that love you that will say hey i know you went out with john tonight you know are you home. How did it go. Did you honor the lord in in the things that you did and said and thought. And to have that accountability is really good the proverb says whoever hates correction is stupid and that's such an abrupt word like it sounds so unloving but it really is bible. And i think there's so many of us that we don't like correction we don't want accountability we don't want other people speaking into our lives when the scripture calls us to that and it's for our own good. A lot of women that i've talked to you whether they've met their guy through online dating which i do want to ask you about that in a minute i know we're almost out of time. But so often girls will say hey i'm dating and then they'll confess to us through girl define whether email or dms and say and i'm struggling with porn or i just found out the guy i'm dating is struggling with porn and it's not like a one one thing here and there it's like he's he's really struggling he's trapped in it. How early should a dating couple bring up those kind of topics that are so common. In the struggle that we face as modern people. Yeah i think in a perfect world like let me see the ideal scenario is. You know you guys know some of the same people you. You know you you've served in the same ways that similar churches you know you've been to the same events like you just. You're just kind of doing the same church things and so you really have an understanding. Of how healthy they are before you. On a date with them. But if that's not the case i know that's can be ideal. I would just want to know like hey what how are you committed to purity like as we spend time together. And i like you and you like me and you know we're obviously. Not just. Yo trying to build a friendship here is something more than a friendship. You know what is what is your commitment to purity look like. Play. What's your conviction on this it's it's a little more generic kind of leaves the door open for more conversation. It is just another way to say that and so it's like purity. Meaning. Where where are you hoping to take me. Between now and the altar. What are you open to doing you know. And how committed to that are you and then just like personal purity is there any is there anything in your personal life. That would make it unwise for you to be spending time with me right now like do you have things that you need to work on. Masturbation right now are you enslave the point right now you're just saying hey is there something in your personal life. That would make it unwise for for me to allow my heart to move your direction right now. And i think that that can be a great question for people. And then i just want to say this. To that girl who is in a relationship. With a guy. Who is addicted to porn one i know that can be really devastating to find out and and i'm so sorry. But a lot of times i'll get asked like hey what do i do. And i think you need to see that as like hey i'm in a relationship with a guy who is committing serial adultery like he's he's regularly. Having sex with other women and that sometimes brings clarity to the question. I would let him heal. Because that he's not going to be a good husband to you. And if it's you if you're the one that's caught in serial adultery right then you you need to have the maturity to say i'm not going to be a great wife to someone right now i want to take a season and let the holy spirit heal my heart and grow my affections for jesus so that i'm no longer you know going to this sexual sin. And i can i can learn to with strength you know not follow my own urges but restrain them. So much clarity comes when we put things in biblical terms right. Like cereal adultery it it sounds so much more severe because it is than just saying oh i kind of have a little porn struggle you know like the world oh it's just it's no big deal it's not a problem but when you put it in biblical terms it's like the weight of it is so much more real. How much weight should physical attraction in general play in romantic relationship you hinted you hinted at this at the very beginning but i know i've talked to so many girls and one that's very close to me right now and she is struggling to even consider a guy who asks her out the godliest guy in the church this happened because she just wasn't attracted to him and she's like i don't know how much weight i should be placing on this it's hard for me if i am literally not attracted to. So so it's kind of like what do i do if i'm not attracted to him is is another way to ask questions like would you encourage cuz i know girls love to hear from guys on this would you consider her. I'm not asking you to be a martyr and say oh you know you got to find the ugliest guy out there and just like take one for the team i don't think it's that yeah. I think i mean i think you you need to be he has to be someone that you like want to partner with you know in life and. And if if he is a god-fearing man. And you're not attracted to him i would begin to ask god to search your heart like lord why am i not attracted to what you find attractive. He looks at the heart. Why don't i look at what you look at you know why am i looking for a six pack. Or or you know an md a medical degree or. You know why am i why do i value these worldly things a dimples or whatever you know. How do i find attractive god what you find attractive. And would you would you tune my heart to that. Two i would just say you know that that guy in his hair is going to fall out and. And you know his teeth are going to fall out and and probably not a lot of your listeners are attracted to. An 80 year old man. Go by the grace of god hopefully their husband one day will be 80. And and so you have to have something much more than physical attraction. And so i would just say how important it is is it attracts it brings you to the conversation but it's going to change the scripture tells us it's fleeting. You know your thumb is your opposable thumb like you want to be complimentary your finger your pointer finger is like hey you want to go the same direction your middle finger is something you can communicate something with really abrupt so i would say you want to be able to communicate well your ring finger is a commitment like how you want to be you want to find someone who's committed and then your pinky you know it's it's it's it's there like you don't want to not have a pinky but it's also not the most important. And and that's kind of where i would put physical attraction it's like man it's it's it's it's it's a great thing to have. But it it changes and it's not always the most useful thing. Yeah that's so good i love it. Okay as we wrap it up. Few more questions here i have to hit on red flags. You didn't episode i saw this on your podcast so good and i know you talk about this. Red flags what are they. What should a girl what is like she's looking at this relationship she's dating a guy or maybe she's even looking from a distance she sees him at church people are recommending him hey he's awesome. What red flag should she be should she have a little antennas at for. If he's sexually promiscuous it's. It's almost like you're looking like izzy control by the spirit if he's controlled by the spirit you're going to be fine. And so the fruit of the spirit is love joy peace patience kindness goodness gentleness faithfulness and self-control. And so if he has those things. Right sometimes it's easier to look for what is there then what's not there. That's a red flag. If he's given to his last like he has no self-control he follows his the urges of his stomach his appetite. Right that's a red flag that's what philippians says you know they're there god is their stomach meaning they follow their appetite their enemies of the cross of christ. And so you're really just trying to find a guy. Who is committed to jesus and i know that that can be challenging. But make sure you're looking at places where guys who are committed to jesus hang out. And you're you're hanging out in those friend groups i mean like you're finding community in those places. And if you do that. You're going to be fine. You don't do that you're going to make it so much more hard so much more difficult on yourself. The girl who is listening who's maybe the 20s little bit older she's never been asked out. And she's hearing this conversation and she's just like. Start taking some of these steps that they're talking about what would you say to that woman. I would say. Don't don't lower your standards. Lengthen your patience. God sees you. He loves you he hasn't forgotten you. I know this is no consolation but stay with me for a second. This life it's it's just a test its it feels like a long test 76 years maybe. It's really a short test of the scripture says but a vapor. And nobody in the history of the world has ever gotten to heaven and said god why did you keep me single. And everyone is married in heaven like we we are the bridegroom of jesus marriage is a metaphor that teaches us about christ relationship with his church. Forever and ever and ever and i know that sounds so. Cliche and try in a platitude. But it's true it is it is it is a reality that we live in. And so use your singleness well you're not just waiting like live your life you know like live your life like go places go on a mission trip learn skills you know build your career. All of the things serve in your church like live your life have friends do community. The travel see the world. Your life doesn't start when you're married your life has started right now. And and all the while hang out where if you desire marriage hang out where guys who are marriage material hang out and listen this is good advice tell your married friends. That you would like to get married. And you say hey did you know of any god-fearing men that you think i would be a great match for would you please let me know. That's not an act of desperation monica and i love to set people up and we're good at it you know everything yeah i'm sure you all do you know the similar right it's like that's fun and so. You don't tell them just say hey i'm really looking for someone to spend the rest of my life with. And if you know of anyone i don't hesitate to set us up that's a good thing you can do. I love that i had a single girl recently tell me like hey i've said this before to you but i really really really really really mean it. If you know any guys that you would. Hey we have a role in how we can support our single brothers and sisters who desire marriage like we can play a part in this in helping them really. Okay last question what would you tell. Your younger dating self what is the number one piece of advice that you would give to your younger dating self. Kingdom and his righteousness and all these things will be added that's not super practical you know i mean it like people are going to roll their eyes at that. So i would say. My number one dating advice. Would be i mean i think if you just know what you're looking for right that's simple i mean that's practical. God tells me that i should look for in a husband. Speaking to ladies. And and just. No so that when you meet him like is he that. And if he's that like when you find that like commit to it you know or be willing to commit to it. And so i think that's a that's really practical and and something that i just i never did it was all about how do i feel how do i feel how do i feel yes. Yes so good jp thank you so much you guys go grab the book if you aren't already ordering it on amazon right now you should be the minute you turn this off because you will not regret it i think the person that we choose to marry is probably one of the biggest life decisions we make outside of salvation right i mean that is a huge decision so why would we not soak like get in god's word and buy resources that help us grow in this so we can make a well-informed christ-centered decision. In this area so thank you so much for bringing so much wisdom thank you so much i'm big fan of the podcast like way to go you're so good at what you do by the way and i'm encouraging so i pray the lord blesses your listeners and blesses the show thank you where can people find you where can i follow you so jake on instagram i do something called friday q&a every friday answer questions and. Jonathan and monica puca on. Facebook jonathan precluded.com. My last name is p o k l u d a i'm at harris creek church here in waco texas and the podcast it's becoming something it's called the becoming something podcast thank you so much keep up the great work. Love it thank you. Okay sisterhood what did you think. Oh my goodness right that was incredible sometimes when he answered i was just floored i was like that is so wise like the way he unpacks truth the way he brings the biblical timeless truth to the truth to this modern conversation of dating and relationships and just helping us see the bigger picture helping us work through some of the nuances i absolutely loved it and i hope you did too please share this around with all of your single sisters all of your single friends anyone you know that would really benefit from this conversation. Go share it right now and if you loved this and you love the content we're bringing you here at girl define. Please leave us a five-star review that helps other women just like you find this podcast you just can quickly head on over to the apple apple podcast or whatever you listen to podcasts just drop a quick five-star review let us know what other topics what other guests that you want us to have on the show cuz we read those comments and they really help inform us on what you're into what you want to know about what you want to grow in and it helps us create shows that are tailored for you we love you sisterhood coming out with us over on instagram at girl define and don't forget to grab a copy of jp's book outdated and also grabbed a copy of our book love to find. I am telling you if you take the time to read both of those books outdated and love to find as a single woman or you give it to a single woman their lives will be radically changed in the area of dating love romance and marriage which is something that as we learned in today's episode is a life-changing decision right so don't don't delay put in the work put in the resources learn and grow these resources are available for you written for you guys i love you so much and we will talk again soon. 