I am going to share my birth story my home birth story. Birth in a tub at home in my living room like a few weeks after we had moved into our new house it was an amazing experience and i just want to share with you the entire story and encourage you those of you who want to be moms one day those of you who are moms just hopefully this entire story will encourage you and your role as a mother and answer any questions you may have about birth stories and home birth stories specifically i have sweet little audrey here with me those of you who are on the video can see her she's probably going to make a lot of noise and she is just going to hang out with us so she'll be here for the whole story. What's up y'all it's bethany and audrey she is our sisterhood the future of girls are fine christmas and i actually joke i think i mentioned this before because we only had boys before christmas is about three months old which is crazy i know that a lot of you have been asking for my birth story and then like hey when are you going to share all the details it just. What is hard to get to the microphone in the video until now so here we are and i am doing great audrey is doing great. Yeah so i have a 3 year old baby he just turned three and then audrey is 3 months old so they're a little less than 3 years apart. And you can go back home but you can listen to my other stories i actually did a birth story about davy so you can listen to that whole story it was completely different than audrey's birth. It was actually at my apartment before we moved and i had some major tearing and just like a ton of issues breastfeeding postpartum was. A nightmare so alyssa i'll link that because i know a lot of your probably like interested in that as well and then. I also did a podcast talking about three miscarriages i had in between davie and audrey it was definitely not a smooth journey getting pregnant again it was difficult to just learning to trust god a lot and it was interesting actually i had just written. Our newest book the one kristen and i wrote not part of the plan trusting god with twists and turns of your story and i had finished writing it before i went through any of my miscarriages and it was such a blessing because god really used all of that book and the scriptures and the truth that we unpack and not part of the plan to help me in my own life and to help me with. Difficulties that were not part of my plan miscarriages that i wasn't expecting so if you are going through something if you're struggling maybe you want to be pregnant and you're not or you've gone through miscarriages or you're just you're not married and you wished you were just something that is not part of your plan i encourage you to grab a copy of our book not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of your story you can get it at girl defined calm or whatever books are sold but yeah that was. I think i said i had a podcast where i talked all about the miscarriages. So you can. I think that as well so you can go listen to that but here we are on the next episode of the journey right audrey. She is literally an angel she. Was born and has been basically the easiest baby since day one she sleeps amazing she nurses amazing she's just as long as she is. Fed and doesn't have to go poop and she's very very happy okay so. Rewinding a bit to let's see this would have been december 22nd. Adjust this past december. Is when my birth journey started with audrey so. I woke up on december 22nd and literally as i was getting out of bed. I was like oh my gosh am i like peeing in my pants what's happening like why. Why is there like all this water and i feel like i cannot control it like i literally am just like peeing in my pants and you know when you're very pregnant sometimes those things kind of happen so i was. Confused and also like oh gosh is this my water breaking like what's going on you know like it's all just kind of like scary and crazy and confusing in the moment and exciting all at the same time with davey my first one and my water didn't break until i was like basically you know pushing him out so. And i was actually kind of nervous about it because once your water breaks you're kind of on a time clock because then after you know so many hours there's risk of infection and you could have to go to the hospital and all that sort of stuff and i was just like i do not want that to happen. I really really wanted to have a home birth and it was going to be my first time breathing in a tub so i was just like oh so i. I was like not 100% sure is my water but i was just like so then it became very obvious very quickly that it was definitely my water breaking and i had a lot of gushes and. Continued. Leaking and stuff throughout. Really the next few hours so i already started living in the diapers before i even gave birth all of you moms know what that's about. And dave just got so excited he was like. It's happening today is the day it was like here drink an energy drink he was so pumped and he was like your water broke we're having a baby you know so he was. Running around like a crazy person like getting everything ready filling up the tub we had to run a few errands to like finalize everything so he was like running to walmart and like making sure everything was good it was hilarious he was so energetic and davey was kind of confused but like what you know like baby sister's coming today so. What's on my way to buy somewhere like hey bethany water broke and she's like great hopefully the contractions will start anytime just keep me posted and so we're like okay so. Hour after hour goes by and literally nothing changes not a single contraction. Like i feel like it's any normal day literally feel completely normal totally normal and i'm just like trying not to stress because i'm like each hour that goes by like. I don't want to end up in the hospital like i just want to have this home birth. And if you know my story with davey you know i had a really really extreme tearing so i had to go to the hospital after he was born to get stitched up because i have four degree tearing. So i literally had to go and get like anesthesia and you know get. Major surgery down there and it was terrible in the recovery was absolutely awful but mostly it was like having to go to the hospital right after the baby was born for me was like you know not not part of my plan so with audrey i was like i don't i am so prepared to give a home birth i don't want to have to go to the hospital so we're just like praying and trying not to stress you know trying to relax so that my body. My water broke at like 8 in the morning so like 8:00 a.m. on the 22nd. Contractions will probably start and you want to make sure you have energy. So i'm resting we going a long walk i'm like maybe that will help you know. Just trying to say hydrated eating just like doing all the things that are just like okay to make sure that you're physically ready so then. It's now 12 hours since my water broke is 8:00 p.m. and now i'm like you have got to be kidding like. It's been 12 hours and there is not a single. Bit of progress. What in the world so my midwife she's like i'm going to come over. And i'm going to check you. And we'll do some herbal tinctures. And i'm like yes please like i wanted to know. Am i even like what's going on like how do i have any progress maybe i just can't tell and i'm actually very progressed. So i'm like yes yes yes yes yes yes all those things and so she comes over and she's like you know. Let's not worry about what's going to happen you know what. If we get to the 24 hour mark. We'll talk about it then you know she didn't want me to stress. But she also is like you know we're not we're not risking anything we're not taking any chances we're not putting you or the baby in any sort of danger so. If she's like basically like if there's no progress by 24 hours for definitely going to the hospital but she didn't want to like. By then we'll see progress and then we'll be okay you'll be you know progressing contractions all that. This is not what i want like i want to just have. How does your body just go from like nothing to all the sudden like having contractions and even though i've been through it before it just felt impossible like it's not going to happen it's just going to be like not what i want you know all this stuff so. It was just like kind of stressful so my midwife comes over at 8:00. She text me and i'm only 2 cm dilated which is like nothing you know you could be 2 cm for weeks so it's just like. You've got to be kidding like. This is the worst like i have literally my water has been broken for. 12 hours i have no progress and i literally don't feel a thing and so. Robin girl time today. That's pretty cool actually. Is just my midwife and dave and i hear and david he was already in bed so no problem. And so i wasn't planning to have anyone else besides the other midwife and the midwife assistant so there would be three midwives here or two midwives of midwife assistant and then dave and i so i wasn't planning on having any family a dual or anything else because i am when i get into the birthstone it's like i need to be in the zone and i don't want anyone else here i don't want to hear you talking i don't want to hear you moving i just need to focus every molecule of my brain on. Getting her contractions giving birth and i just don't like for me i don't really want someone like putting a damp cloth on my head or touching me or you know doing counter pressure it's like. Oh no do not touch me like i am in the zone and i don't want anyone even blinking it sounds kind of like intense but every person is different and for me it's like i just don't want anyone in the room that is not helpful for me so. Besides my midwives and my husband of course. And so she we decide to do some herbal tinctures so she gives me two different tinctures like that are rotating i don't remember the names of them and she's like okay we'll do this like you know let's get this going and this they're just teachers that are known to help induce contractions and get labor going things like that so for about two hours like every. 15 or 30 minutes i'm taking these teachers until i'm at the recommended dose you do them like in you know segments. And still just absolutely nothing you know my midwife and dave are just kind of like hanging out and chatting and. I have my midwife appointments and checkups david and my midwife are always like getting into these hilarious debates and i'm like can we talk about the baby now but i thought it was funny it's like i love that my midwife and my husband and me all have like a great relationship and she just my midwife is the best i i found her just a little introduction because my mom. She had eight kids and my mom my mom had eight kids and my mom had from me on down all his homework so i was the first home birth that my mom had and i was a whopping 10 plus pounds. And i guess it was a great experience even though it was a massive baby so my mom did it. Many more times and for the last few i was old enough to be present and remember my siblings being born and i was in the room when they were all born my mom was like. More the merrier and so she had. Neighbors and everyone in the room when she was giving birth and i was just how she liked it like a big party is celebration and that is the opposite of me but that's okay. When my mom gave birth and so my midwife is like the grandma of midwives she's like the she's delivered literally thousands of babies. And she is just like incredible she has so much knowledge so much wisdom she is literally seen everything been through everything she's also extremely precautious and safe like she's not going to. We're not taking any chances we're not taking any risks she definitely believes the hospital has a place and is there for those emergencies and so she's like if we need to you're going to the hospital you know and so she's like if you don't want that then i'm not the midwife for you and i'm like yes i love that so. Yeah i really appreciate how precautious she is. Knowledgeable she is as well and just why is and also hilarious and such a hippie. And loves debating theology too so. So anyway she. Do you want to say hello. So if y'all go back and watch the video or if you're watching it right now but if you're on the podcast go and watch the video youtube.com slash girl to find and or make sure you're on our email list because then you can see audrey yeah you can see audrey girl. And i'm probably going to be nursing her for some of this but thankfully that is off camera. Alright so this is very casual this is mommy. Mommy audrey time to share a story and. Do what we need to do and she's pulling my hair okay so. We go through the rotating concoctions or whatever they are and still absolutely nothing and so my midwife was like okay if we get to the end of the concoctions and there's nothing then we'll do the castor oil and castor oil really has like a ton of research behind it and there are just so many stories and so many examples of people who. Take castor oil and if their body is ready they actually go into labor so my mom who had. 6 home birth is like the biggest believer in castor oil ever she always took it and it always she had like the most incredible fast amazing home burst ever and and so my midwife was like you she was like we want to take it when your body is ready you don't want it because you're for your body is not ready it's not going to help but if your body is ready it can really help induce labor so. I'm like yes let's do this so i finished all the concoctions and then i take. The recommended dose of castor oil weight 30 minutes so she had me do it in two batches so i did like the first recommended oz or whatever it was i don't remember and then the second recommended amount of oz and and then just wait to see what happens so again. Talk to your healthcare professional this is nothing i'm sharing is medical advice or a recommendation and nothing should be done. Without consulting your healthcare provider so your midway for your doctor whoever this is just what my midwife and i did and what worked really well for us so. Nothing happening going through all the concoctions still nothing to centimeters like okay so i download the castor oil and. It was actually approaching i guess it had been a few hours now it was approaching midnight so i take the concoctions nothing's happening i take the castor oil still nothing's happening so it's now about midnight so my midwives like you know. This is the really funny part of the story. Sister. Aren't you can't find a comfortable spot. And i'm like. She's like i can't stay out here and y'all can go in there and do your thing and maybe that will help you know and i'm like. In my head i'm thinking like. Absolutely not how could i ever get in the moment knowing that my midwife is literally sitting on the other side of the wall and dave's like he's like has no problem with you he's like yeah that'd be great you know and i'm like no so i'm like i just don't know i just like i just can't i mentally could not even get in the zone or in the mood at all with you sitting on the other side of the wall so she's like okay so she's like why don't i then. She wasn't going to be that far away so she's like why don't i go home. And y'all just get some rest or do whatever you want to do. And just call me if anything changes and if nothing's changed by 8 a.m. the 24 hour mark will make a plan and go from there. And so i'm like this is just insane like i am now at least they started at 8:00 a.m. it's now. 12 a.m. the next day we're now on the 23rd and i have had zero changes and i'm like i've done the concoctions i've done the castor oil like i've done i don't know if she did some. Stretch things down there i don't know what they were. Bye just trying to get things going and nothing and so she leaves at 12:00 a.m. on the 23rd so it's the next day. And i'm like okay so david and i are like well let's get to bed because either way this baby's coming whether we go to the hospital or not so we just need to get some rest and so. We basically get in bed at about like 12:10 you know the midwife leaves we get kind of like. Situated get in bed and then literally. Like 5 minutes later. I will be like 10 minutes later wait what time no. We got in bed and then within the next like 15-20 minutes so 12:30 a.m. if you don't like girls i literally feel like. Oh my gosh i'm going to throw up and i but like at the same time as that i got like my first super intense like. Horribly painful contraction not just like a little eat like i've been through labor before in this felt. So so intense so i'm in bed and at the same time i get this. The most intense contraction and the urge to throw up at the same time and so because i was having such an intense contraction i couldn't get up or like basically move to get to the toilet or a bowl or sink or something to throw up in so i literally was so gross so don't listen if you don't like this but i literally just like like throw up all over the bed. It was so horrible but i'm in so much pain and i'm like oh so i like. As soon as the contraction ends i like run to the bathroom and castor oil does a number on you and just so you know it clears you out in all directions and dave's like he said his head he was thinking like oh my gosh like is this what's going to happen like so he is rushing to like change the sheets put fresh sheets on wash those and i'm like. I think it started like i think this is it so i like i'm just in the bathroom for a minute like dealing with everything and it's like immediately contractions just like start coming one on top of the other with literally like no break in between and i'm like. Oh my gosh. This is so intense from like it was like zero to 100 so. We it's like 12 so that starts at 12:30 and then i am just like there's no way i can get back in bed you know like at all so the tub dave starts filling up the tub with hot water because you know you haven't already but you don't want to put the hot water into soon and so we start feeling it up with the hot water i run upstairs and go to the shower and i'm just like. I like leaning over like it's so intense i'm like this is insane like if this is going to go on for hours and hours and hours and hours like i feel like we're already like approaching giving close to like actually pushing that this just started so i was like. This is so much because i remember with daisy it was 7 hours start to finish but they definitely progressed so it went from like. 7 being definitely like like the first hour it went from being hard to like really really hard very very quickly to where i had to like couldn't breathe through them but this one felt like i was already like how intense the track contractions were at the end with davey is how they felt at the beginning with audrey they were just so. Insanely intense and so i'm up there. And i know a lot of you love to know like hoping i can exams and what i was doing so i went in the shower and because of the way that audrey was positioned she was actually sunny side up. Which means she is in the opposite position of the ideal position for babies and so she's in a position that basically causes back labor ya back labor so davey was in just like the regular birthing position and he i didn't have back labor with him. Audrey was sunny side up which means that i had back labor. Every contraction so intense because i was having a normal labor normal contractions plus back labor it was horrible it was just like a huge ball of like like explosion on my body all at once and so. I'm just in the shower and i'm mostly turned around like having the water on my back because i'm just like all this is so much so dave comes up he's like how's it going you know and he's like helping me breathing all of that and i'm just like this is so intense and so. We decide to call my midwife around 2:00 a.m. so it starts at 12:30 it's been an hour and a half. They're really intense i'm coming over right now and so she comes over and she is like. Starting to time contractions listen to baby you know just like doing all the things and so she's like i'm going to call the other midwife and the assistant and have them come over because. Seems like things are really picking up. And so she gets there at maybe like 2:30 so. It's crazy she's there at 2:30 and i am literally already downstairs like getting ready to get in the tub because i'm like this is so intense but the disappointing part was is that she checked me and i was only five centimeters and so i was like what like i feel like i am fully maxed out ready to go and i'm only at 5:00 like what is going on. Because it felt like i was like literally about to like give birth you know. And so i was for coping mechanisms i literally was using every single molecule in my brain to focus on breathing mainly. Like focus on breathing focus on breathing like. Throughout all the contractions it's like i just cuz. Just do what it needs to do and sadly in so many ways i feel like the medical community has. Old women that they are incapable of giving birth that they don't know how to give birth at birth is kind of like having a broken arm like it's something to be fixed when in reality god designed women to give birth and i think. You know most women without like barring complications like i'm saying like actual situations where they're genuine need for a c-section and again i think there are so many c-sections done that are not. Needing to be done. The business of being born i highly recommend watching that if you're curious at all about. Birth and labor so the business of being born is great also. There is a course called the pain free birth course and it's great if you're learning wanting to learn about like coping mechanisms how to labor how to do it all naturally there's another account it's like a hypnobirthing christian account though. That's really great i'll link some of these resources below and then there's a great book anna may's guide to childbirth something like that so those are the top recommended resources that i would recommend if you're really wanting to understand the beauty and the just grow in your ability to give birth and to do it naturally and to prepare for that or whatever so. Those are the resources i would definitely recommend but for me i know my body was capable cuz i had been through it before with davie so i was like i know my body can do this it's just a matter of mentally getting out of the way so that my body can do what it needs to do because every single time when you're giving birth that you tense up it's basically like you're holding the baby in when the baby is trying to come through the birth canals trying to go down so your entire job when you are giving birth is too mentally get out of the way and let your body do what it needs to do it's like just breathe do not tense up and let go but what you naturally want to do is you want to be like this when you're like it feels intense you want it. Delays everything and so you have to. It works so hard to mentally get out of the way so that your body can do what it needs to do and you have to trust your body after trust that god made you capable of this and you just have to like mentally figure out what you can do to get your brain so focused and i think that's what makes it doable i think that's what it doesn't ease the intensity of it and the pressure but it helps you to go with it and work with it rather than against it so i remember even one point my forehead was just a little intense in my midwife's like. Okay you know relax attention relax attention and so i would just. And i did that. Through every single contraction because you just have to and so i just knew like i the more i work with my body the faster this is going to go and the sooner i'm going to meet my baby which is like so exciting so. Like i said my midwife gets there about 2:30 cuz we called her at 2:00 she text me i'm only a 5:00 but i'm like i am all about this is so intense so she calls the other midwives they i am already in the tub by the time they get there so they get there at like 3:15 so remember all of this started at about 12:30 so water broke 8 a.m. the day before it's been so many hours first super big contraction is at 12:30 a.m. on the 23rd so christmas eve or christmas autumn whatever you like to call it and. Now it is 2:30 so it's been contractions for 2 hours sitting in the. So it's now 2:30 a.m. and i am in the tub just like laboring laboring my other two midwives get there at 3:15 a.m. and they're so sweet. I just loved it and the other midwife like the main midwife that was there she's also she was on the mission field for a long time she has literally delivered like thousands of babies herself seen it all so it's like between the two main moon wives they just had the most experience and then my midwife assistant she's so sweet she was there for davie as well and she is just great so encouraging just like cheering me on but in a way that's real. You know settle and helpful and. Just right there for you when you need them not when you need them she was the main one like checking the heart tones and all of that everything was looking great and then it's like probably at like. So they got there at 3:15 and by 3:30 so like 15 minutes later i had the super strong urge to push so they barely made it and so i'm in the tub. And my biggest concern with this birth was that i didn't have major tearing because i had such horrible tearing with davey that i was like i if anything happens i just don't. That was my biggest concern so. I you know wanted to make sure i was in a position that was helpful but the biggest thing that they encouraged me in was to make sure that when i pushed that i would push and then hold the baby down so basically like instead of pushing and then the baby kind of coming back up and then pushing the baby kind of coming back up it's like i would have to push and then kind of like hold the baby there it's kind of confusing if you haven't given birth but once you go through the process or your. You end up there you'll know what i mean and the reason for that is because as you hold the baby in position it helps stretch everything out along the way. So you push and then you hold. It was just a contraction to the next one like i've got to push this baby like this. You know uncontrollable urge to push into my midwives the three of them are like okay you have your main wife she's like hands-on i had another midwife she's charting everything so she's literally charting every single thing that happens every contraction every like she's basically documenting the entire thing and then and you know as baby comes out there like all the everything it's like they just make sure everything's okay everything's marked down so the assistant was like hands-on with the other midwife and dave's all the way right there too. And so i'm like. Pushing and then holding it and there in between contractions though i feel like the the time i had went between the pushing was actually a little bit longer than the time i had in between contractions before this which was nice because like i would push and hold and i was able to like get some support and encouragement for my husband in the midwives and so i was like talking to them like okay this is a good position like is everything looking good and they're like yes you're doing great like remember. They were reminding me of my goal and it was so encouraging and so helpful and just like this is what i need so. Midwives of all the rest of the midwives get there at like 3:15 i'm pushing by 3:30 and. I was in such a position where i could kind of like see what was happening and i could see audrey as she was coming out and that's when we found out that she had boatloads of hair cuz she was born. With a very full head of hair so that was pretty hilarious so i pushed and i'm holding that ring of fire that big stretch but i am like you know this is it like when you start pushing that means your baby is going to be there any minute and that is just the most exciting thing in the world. So i do you know that she was born probably within like 15 minutes of pushing so. I do another push and eventually it's like her head comes out. And i'm like oh my gosh because the head is like the hardest part so the heads out and then the next push her whole body comes out. And it was really exciting but then kind of really scary because she had the cord wrapped around her neck. Twice. And so you know i don't know how long the process was of them getting the cordon tangled because it's like my mind i just started like freaking out and it's like the whole world just like stopped you know and i'm just like. You know i'm just like freaking out because i'm like. You know it's just so scary as a mom. It was just like so that happened and they were on it you know very quickly got the cord i'm done got the quarter round the waist and done audrey was doing great she didn't do like a big cry but she was breathing so my midwife just did some. She put her with me first and then she took her pretty quickly though to do some like. I don't know whatever they do to get them like breathing more fully get their lungs cleared out things like that so she did that and then gave her back to me. They were also a little concerned because. If you don't like this. Skip this stuff but after i pushed her out the pool i mean the pool the bathtub was pretty bloody and typically they're not that. Like there's not as much blood as there was in mine and so they were kind of concerned about me as well because they're like you know this is not typical and so. They wanted me to get out of the tub and kind of like check me and see what was happening to make sure that i was okay and not. Losing a bunch of blood whatever the technical terms are. So there was like a few little scares right after she was born between me and audrey but everything was just perfectly fine like she was perfectly fine we got her out my chest she latched right away it was so beautiful you know dave was so excited and then they checked me i had the teeny teeny tiniest hair only one but that was so small it didn't even require stitching because it would just heal so beautifully on its own so it was like the minorous thing so i was like yes like my work paid off like i did it like i did i don't have to go to the hospital like i i didn't have any tearing like this is amazing and of course if it's anything minor my midwest constitute me up but with debut it was just so intense that i needed to have surgery and. The pool looks so bloody because i was perfectly fine there were no issues with me and then or after. I'm so that was that was that there was. And you know they check your placenta to make sure there's no pieces missing just like all the things. And so we get in bed. And it basically was 3 hours start to finish contraction started at 12:30 and she was born at 3:45 a.m. so it was like the three most intense hours of my life it was so so intense and so the midwives are there they stay there with you there you know checking baby doing all the things with baby checking me making sure i'm okay i went and i was able to take a shower rinse all off get all clean come back snuggle baby we were just all snuggled up it was so sweet dave and me and in bed and they. They stay for a certain amount of time to make sure that baby is okay and that you're okay. One funny thing is that i was i was not able to pee after. Were like the the time that you need to be able to be like they can't leave until you pee because your bladder sometimes what can happen is like your body like just like forgets how to go after giving birth and like i don't know everything was just like all moved around in there and so that can cause problems obviously so they were like. You have to be able to pee or we have to basically stick a catheter up there and like empty your bladder like you have to be able to empty your bladder or else we have to we you know can't. And that was the one thing that i was like i kept. Like i would go in there and sit in and out there like you having water electrolytes orange juice like trying to get my body to go and i just could not and so they're like you know sometimes having people there in the pressure can like. Can cause that can be like too much pressure on your body is just like i don't feel safe i don't want to go whatever so they were like we're going to go to breakfast and we're going to stay on the clock though like we're not going home or just going to go just down the street to give you space so that you can mentally. Get a place where you feel like you can go to the bathroom and if it hasn't happened though within an hour we're going to have to like do a catheter and i'm like well that sounds awful. So they leave to give me some space to mentally get in the zone so i could be and then it was crazy like as soon as they left. I was able to go to the bathroom it's just crazy how our bodies work and how they. Don't do certain things when they don't feel safe or they don't feel comfortable or they feel stressed and so i called them and they called me and i was like yeah and they were like so then they were officially able to sign off the clock from me and. So the first night was beautiful i guess and then into the morning dave you woke up and immediately he got to meet baby sister and he is obsessed with her we call her baby sister all the time it's like baby sister so he got to meet audrey and he was so excited and just you know. He was just in love with her from day one so this is where the story gets a little bit crazy. The midwives came back and when they were checking audrey. They were like okay this was not here before and they're like what is going on and so her. If you're looking at her her right leg her basically her entire foot and leg up into like her little booty and then up her back a little was like all like. Red and splotchy like almost looks like it wasn't getting blood flow. And so they're like examining it and checking all the notes cuz they check her completely at birth and they do a thorough examination write everything down. To see you know what what the deal is what's going on and they. He's texting me like what's going on. I'm telling him i don't want to pause the podcast so we all just. Text text with me so they're like. They're like okay you know looking at everything evaluating her and they're like. Trying to figure out what this could be like why they're why her leg is all like red and splotchy and like you know to their checking your heart checking like everything and everything sounds good. And so. After consulting with themselves and with. You know the other midwives and just like they basically recommended. That we take her to the children's hospital. Emergency room and the reasoning for that is because. There is a specific i don't know what it is like. Some sort of issue that newborns can have where it's like a very serious though and they're the blood flow isn't flowing to certain extremities i guess and so it could be like not a major issue but it could be very life-threatening if you don't get it taken care of and it can be taken care of but you have to go to the hospital and so i was just like devastated like. I had to go to the hospital with davey for me and now we have to go to the hospital for audrey. And it was like you know 24 hours later so we're still in that super exhausted newborn phase and it just and it's christmas eve now. Literally christmas eve and it just felt like such a bummer. So this was an emotional part for me and when i talk about it more it makes me cry because it was just like super intense and also kind of scary when you have a newborn and they're like there might be a big problem with them or it might be fine so i was just like such a hot mess so overwhelmed so. And we go to the children's hospital emergency room that my midwives had recommended one that's really great and they were amazing it just you know his christmas eve so i guess people were wanting to be there was like this was literally like the coldest i gave birth on like the coldest night it was like we had this massive freeze too so the next day was still freezing like you don't want to be out and about with your newborn so. You know when i'm having still like really pretty intense like after birth contractions they for many people they progressively get more intense as the more children you have so i didn't have any with davey but with audrey i had. And so i was taking stuff to help with them but it was just like i just want to be in bed i don't want to be. Out and about and so. You know we go to the hospital and i'm just like a mess and they're like you know. We didn't have to wait a single minute literally they had to go back they took her you know whatever they do they listen to all the things and do all the things and immediately put us in a room to see a doctor. Pediatric doctor for like a million years he's like looking at her leg and he's like you know like i've never seen this. I am not sure what this is okay i want to take you know take. Blood get her tested immediately to rule out any major issues like the blood flow issues so they were checking all her extremities and she seemed to have good blood flow though like they can do all that stuff. I have no idea what the terms are i'm just telling you as like a processes through my brain what i imagine. And so they you know the nurses were all so sweet the doctors were so kind. And i was just so thankful because one we had given a home birth so sometimes. When you go to the hospital sometimes you can get a little heck for. If they are not a fan of homework but they were so kind so supportive did not like we're not. At all unkind about her homework they were like that's great like this is a completely separate issue so we're talking through everything you know we even got on the phone with our midwife she's explaining okay here's what it wasn't this wasn't present at birth here's when it became president they're wanting to go through every single detail trying to figure out what is going on with audrey and of course i'm as a mom like overwhelmed and terrified because i'm like i just don't want anything to be wrong with my baby. And we're just sitting there we brought some snacks and like some kombucha and i don't know like just through whatever we had some beef sticks in my purse because we weren't sure how long we're going to be gone. And here we are in the hospital you know like this is just not really what we expected again not part of the plan. Not part of the plan trusting god. In these moments you can get not part of the plan at girl to find out comma that's our book all about trusting god with the twists and turns of your story and. It's snowing truth and having truth in your mind and your heart that is so helpful when you face these moments so we were. Heard about us loved us and that he was guiding us and. We had an incredible doctor so he the doctor was amazing because he immediately started. Connecting with other doctors who specialize in these things other pediatricians so we got on the phone or whatever like. Other doctors and their you know hospital. Group so he's talking to them consulting with them he brought in some other people into the room they're looking at her and so they do the blood test run the test. A vitamin k shot and they this will be controversial thoughts on paypal but you it's you know there's a lot of arguments for or against it but we decided to go ahead and give it to her at the hospital just to rule out any potential problems with that in our midwife was actually recommending that with davey he never needed it it wasn't an issue with audrey. I can't think of all the reasons why but it could help with one of the issues that she might have had if it were that so we were like you know let's do it just to rule out that issue they were super nice about it if they weren't pressuring us they were like this is 100% your choice you don't have to but we recommend it our midwife was like i recommend it and so we were like okay we'll do it. Play so appreciated that at the hospital too how they were very supportive of the parents decision they were never like forcing us to do anything they were only making recommendations and letting us as parents choose but obviously we wanted to get to the root of what was going on so we were very open and willing to try things to figure it out so it's hard watching your new little born get their blood drawn i mean that is just like the last thing you want to do and they're tiny little veins but they had two they brought in two nurses that were helping with that and they were both so sweet and so kind. It was a male nurse and a female nurse and david and i were like they were so flirting like the entire time and i don't know if they know so obvious but it was so obvious anyway. As much as possible when they were doing like the different things to her and audrey actually did great she literally like didn't cry through anything she was super happy just like nursing and i was making sure i was like right there with her cuddling her and all of that. And so basically what happened at the end of the day is they they basically came in and took some video and pictures of her leg to send it to the need q team because they were like we can't get to the root of this and we don't want to send you home and something bad to happen and so we want to keep you in the nicu and figure out what the heck is going on and we were like that is such a bummer because it's like christmas but we absolutely agree you know when everyone feels bad they're like this is such a bummer this is no fun we're so sorry you're here but we want to help you more like yes agreed. So amazingly enough though. The one of the other doctors someone comes in gets the picture sends it off to the nicu and then. Literally the sweetest ever. Three doctors nurses i don't know who they are literally come all the way over from the nicu it's like way on the other side of the hospital they come all the way over to our emergency room and they were like you know it's christmas eve if you don't have to come to the nicu we don't want you to have to stay there so we're coming to these parents who are having like serious issues with their babies and we're trying to prevent you from coming to the nicu if all possible so that you can go home and be with your baby and it was like that is so sweet and it was just. Do you know when you end up in these situations and you're like. This is so difficult and this is so hard but you feel like god just directed you to the exact right place that the exact right time to see the exact right like medical team and professionals that you need and. Dave and i were just so grateful they were all so professional but so kind-hearted and so like sweet and so supportive and so just amazing so. Doctors or whatever they were from the need to come in there like these three ladies they're so kind so sweet and just like you know it's going to be okay and i'm like you know constantly crying cuz i'm just so worried about audrey and they're like she's going to be okay you know so they. Immediately like you know start looking at her leg looking at her back. And they were immediately like they just knew like even the multiple doctors who had seen her are midwife the nurses nobody could figure out what was going on because it just looked so strange and it was so extreme but at the end of the day what they think that it is is just a very extreme port wine stain which is basically just a skin issue when it comes to the leg it doesn't impact her blood flow or anything else it is just. Ginormous birthmark and it can be problematic if it's in on your face or different parts of you like. Areas that could impact you but because of her her it was just on her leg there weren't any concerns and so they were like all three of those niku doctors 100% agree they were like this is exactly what we think it is and this is not life threatening this is not an issue it's just they were like we've never seen this and it's such an extreme case so that's why it looks so scary and looks like she's has blood flow restriction but it's just a poor wine stain. And you can go see a pediatric dermatologist after like get past new year's like take just enjoy time with your family and then schedule an appointment but she's okay there's nothing else wrong she's fine we recommend not coming to the nicu and just going home because she's going to be okay we've ruled out all other issues she's okay and i was just like. Like the biggest breath of fresh air just so much relief. And you know it was just. But if you saw it. Even today people still. Circulation cut off because it just looks it kind of looks like she has the circulation to her leg cut off and it like it's getting kind of like red and blue but it's not it's just like a really big birthmark and so. I was so grateful. That nothing was wrong with her. Headed home and it was basically christmas when we got home because it was so late and we were just exhausted and hungry and so daisy he i think you stayed i don't know with my sister and my mom someone he was just poor guy he had to just kind of be carded all over but it's just like we couldn't do anything about it so. I went through. Definitely went through a few. I just like a few feelings of just. Feeling overwhelmed. It makes me like it's hard as a parent you want your kids to. Like i have everything so perfect and beautiful and she is beautiful and perfect but it's like we live in such a cruel world where people are already like so mean about things you know it's like. It's like i don't care but. When you have kids you want to protect them from mean people all the time and it's like. You know we we saw a dermatologist pediatric and he's like yeah when it's in this sort of situation there's probably even laser treatments is. Return when it's in this part of the body and so he's like well wait about 6 months and re-evaluate and see but most likely it's just going to be how god made her he didn't say that but basically it's how she is and it'll just be a unique part about her. And so i think it's so sweet she definitely has a beautiful. Marking in god made her this way and it's just so precious but i think about the part that's hard. Is knowing that some people will like probably make fun of her for it one day or just you know like you know when you get stuff to deal with anything difficult which sounds so dumb but. A woman that knows where her identity is found and that knows that she is so perfectly made by god and that he designed her to be this way so beautifully. That there is nothing wrong with her but just a unique. Is a unique beautiful part about her in my prayer is that she can use this unique part about her to even. Be such a beautiful reflection of god and just his unique designs and creation and that she will be a woman who finds her complete worth in him and. If ever people do make comments or make fun of her for it that she will have such confidence in christ. And so that is my goal that i am going to erase her that way to just know that she truly is a girl defined by god and that he loves her so much and. I don't cover it up you know like i put her in a little like onesies and little cute outfits where her legs are totally showing because i'm not embarrassed of it or ashamed of it or trying to hide it. I think she's beautiful and perfect. And you know people do ask questions about it. And that's fine. I just tell him that this is super special way god made her and that she has a port wine stain all over her leg and up into her back and that it's just super special unique part about her so. I wasn't expecting to cry through all that but it was just warm. It's more reflecting on all of the emotions i had. Feeling like i don't want my child to have to deal with anything extra you just want to protect them and take care of them so it's just all of that but she. Is just the sweetest thing in the world she's so adorable she's just so cute and so perfect and davey and her love each other and devious such a good big brother for her and dave is the best dad in the world for her she couldn't have a better dad you know like he just loves her so much and. I just pray that i can be an example to her showing her what it means to live as a girl to find by god and live as a woman who knows her identity is found. And you know that's what girl define ministries is all about and that's my prayer that i can raise her to understand all of these truths and. That she will be a confident woman because of her foundation in christ so that brings me so much joy knowing that. Not only. Will she be able to know where her designer is who made her wear her worth his phone but that this is special about her and unique and that we were all the same how boring would that be like it's the diversity of the unique things about us that just make us so special and give us opportunities to glorify god even more. Anyway. All that to say i am doing great postpartum has been way easier physically i just felt like i've recovered so much quicker i've just feel like i have known how to nutritionally take care of myself so much more just really nourishing my body and i've been able to get pretty good sleep cuz audrey is a pretty good sleeper we're closing with her right now and it's going great she just sleeps so well at night. And she's just great. I'm definitely not done like i definitely hope to have more in the future because it's just the best in the entire world i just love it so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so much. Yeah but if you are dealing with anything where you're like yeah. You know you have a unique aspect about you something unique about the way you look you were born with something special that god gave you physically i encourage you to read girl to find god's radical design for beauty femininity and identity which is the book kristen and i wrote you can grab it at girl to find.com shop. And it's really helping you understand that you are a girl to find my god you are made in his image the one who designed you get to define you and he says that you are worthy and beautiful and valuable not because of who you are but because who jesus is and because we are his we are his adopted into his family as children of god and we trust in him and so. Just remember that if you need encouragement in that area definitely grab a copy of girl to find. We have tons of instant downloadable resources at girl to find.com shop tons of stuff that can help encourage you like right now right where you are audrey is definitely sleeping in this podcast was way longer than i was expecting and i was not expecting to get all emotional and tearful. But you know. It's such personal stuff birth and your children are just so personal so we're going to wrap it up there. You can definitely head on over to instagram if you're not there already. Instagram.com leave comments i'd love to chat with you and please if you enjoy this leave us a five star review you have no idea how helpful that is leave us a comment just leaving a word of encouragement we read all those we check the reviews they're just such an encouragement. And yeah that is it i will see you all again or you'll hear from me next week. 