Today on the girl to find show i'm talking with jinger duggar vuolo you may recognize her name as being one of the duggar kids from tlc's hit reality tv show 19 kids and counting and counting on. If you've seen the show like me and so many other people then you probably noticed some of the unique ways that the duggar girls dressed skirts and dresses only no pants and the way that they pursued romantic relationships according only with chaperones at all times things like that. But now as a married woman herself and mom ginger is choosing a different path than the one that her family followed and she tells this story in her new book becoming free indeed my story of disentangling faith from fear. Raw and honest about the reasons behind her family's ultra conservative lifestyle and how many of their beliefs were rooted in the legalistic teachings of bill gothard in our conversation she shares how gothard seven basic life principles promised freedom and success to anyone who followed them but for ginger growing up these principles and these rules trapped her in fear and even religious superstition. In today's conversation i asked ginger what her journey has looked like to lead her away from bill gothard teachings and away from the theology of her childhood she shares her testimony of finding true freedom in her relationship with jesus by disentangling the lies from truth. We also talked about how her family is responding to her new book i asked her questions about her older brother josh how she today parents are differently as a mom and the truth and grace of the gospel that she hopes every follower of any legalistic style teaching will come to know hey sisterhood it's kristen here and i'm so glad you're joining me for this episode of the girl to find show because we get to do something extra special we get to talk to someone who many of us watched on reality tv for years i remember watching 19 kids and counting watching counting on and i was just so fascinated by the duggar family the way they did things on their lifestyle just the fact that there were so many of them and how it just everyday life is like a show in and of itself right that's why they had a show that's so interesting so but before i bring it on and we have that conversation specifically about her new book. I just want to give some background because as i've talked to people about this book about the things that ginger is sharing a lot of people have no idea who bill gothard is and a huge portion. In fact so much of ginger's book is about her disentangling a lot of her beliefs that came from this man's teachings from her childhood and so you know i just kind of assumed like yeah most people have heard about him i mean he was a pretty big deal a while back but i've learned to like know not everybody really knows who he is and in fact ginger the dedication to her book. Here's what it says. To those who have been hurt by the teachings of bill gothard or any religious leader who claimed to speak for god but didn't. Dedication is for people who grew up. Hurt by bill gothard teachings or really any religious leader who came to speak for god so if you're like yeah you know i've heard her mention that but i don't really know who this man is i didn't spend a lot of time in my conversation with her digging into bill gothard and just like who he is his background because that didn't seem as valuable. To do that with her but she references him a lot and so i want to give you just a little bit of a background and to who this man was so you can have more context when we dive into our conversation. So bill gothard was born on november 2nd 1934 he came onto the scene really like publicly when he really became well-known was in the 1960s and 70s. When sex drugs and rock and roll were a big concern for parents right that era all the kids were going crazy and christian parents were like we need a plan we need a system we need a method for training up our kids in the way they should go so parents were concerned and rightly so things were kind of crazy right culturally. So when bill golfer came onto the scene he wasn't coming onto the scene like some religious kook where he's got you know he just came across really weird or like he's got these weird methods he was a very educated well-spoken man he has he earned his ba in biblical studies from wheaton college and then his ma and christian education followed by a phd in biblical studies from louisiana baptist university so he wasn't just this guy who was uneducated who didn't really understand the bible but claimed to speak for god and have all these words he was educated he was very well studied he had studied the bible for a long time and so what he said sounded very good the way he would interpret scripture and verses and apply application sounded really accurate and he was very articulate. And ultimately came out with a lot of curriculum that just sounded and looked very appealing as it was offering a better way it was saying hey parents there's a better way. Your kids you know they don't have to go off the deep and they don't have to get in to drug sex and rock and roll. Jesus has a better option for them and here's you know a plan. A plan for success that will guarantee if you follow it that you will receive god's favor and your children will stay on the right course so you can imagine thinking back in time like wow this would sound very appealing to parents especially a lot of first-generation parents so parents who themselves did not grow up in a christian family and so they didn't have any sort of discipleship themselves but now here they are wanting something better for their kids and that's what gotthard promised he came on the scene promising these answers promising these principles for parents to follow and in doing so they would receive god's blessing and they would have success in raising their kids in the way they should go. But here's the kicker. Gothards many of his teachings came across as but if you don't follow my principles if you don't follow this program if you don't follow these things exactly as i have laid them out. As he was presenting was biblical and scriptural than your life would just be one disaster after another and in a lot of his teachings he would bring application points for people who had disastrous life since they will look at this person with this problem or this disease or this accident or look at how this family is falling apart and then he would bring he would tell a story and bring all these reasons for why this disaster was happening to this family or this person and it always circled back to they weren't following one of the seven principles that he had laid out the basic life principles and i'll get into that and just a second. I think that at that time parents really wanted a black and white solution they really wanted a method right we all do or like just give me the plan give me the method give me the 10 step program so that i can stay on the straight and narrow and do the right thing right i think in our hearts we all want that but that's not what god's word oftentimes presents it doesn't you know it does give us a lot of guidelines and principles and rules and wisdom but there are oftentimes where we take that way further and we put a lot of rules on things that god doesn't. And that's what was happening so parents were buying into a lot of his programs his curriculum thinking that it was the answer to keep their kids from sin. He started hosting the seminars this is when he really the height of his popularity i would say the 60s and 70s when he was hosting these humongous seminars that would literally phil stadiums like 10,000 people strong. Like that's crazy that's like these are almost like revival style you know. Seminars that he's hosting and people are flocking to them parents and families are coming in droves to hear what this man has to say and so he started these conferences these programs and then that kind of morphed into some homeschool curriculum that he wrote and then eventually founded what many people have heard of iblp. Which stands for institute in basic life principles and that is the organization that a lot of the seminars and conferences came out of. And then he also founded ati which stands for advanced training institute. That program was geared more for curriculum and a lot of stuff for homeschool families and so you could go to his seminars you could learn his principles for success for biblical christian success and then you could buy his programs and you could do them at home and you could train your children in the way they should go using his methods using his wisdom booklets using all the things and you know if you did it was almost like you're going to you are going to have god's favor because you're going to be walking the right path and this is the path to success and so of course that sounds really appealing. Now the seven basic life principles they really are like if you just look at them at face value like from the outside it's like okay these things seem good right and okay these scriptures like some of them i could kind of see how you get there but it's when you dig deeper down into each principal and really the problem comes when you have one verse that feels like it's cut out of context like from scripture and then there's very very specific application apply to that one verse with no other context and the application is so specific far beyond anything that scripture says at all about how you should live or dress or what you should do how you should think what music you should listen to and that specific area and so that's where i think a lot of the problems came is that the application drilled down so specifically like with pinpoint exactly what you should and shouldn't do and draw very hard very black and white lines and one line was the one side of the line was applying the first biblically according to gothard receiving god's favor pursuing success and then if you did not follow the application of how he laid it out for that particular scripture in that particular. Basic life principle in that individual principal then you would be on you know outside of god's favorite outside basically sinning if you did anything different and so i'm not going to get into the nooks and crannies of every principle but just to lay him out so he had principal one design principle to authority. Principal 3 responsibility. Principal for suffering. Principal 5 owner. Principal 6 freedom and principal 7 success. And one of the things i don't really get into this in my conversation with ginger but one of the things that he would do frequently in his teachings and in his curriculum is that he would share quote truth by analogy. So what i mean by that is he would regularly tell stories about things that happened to people or i remember hearing one story years ago about his reasoning for why any sort of music with a certain type of beat was considered sinful and really demonic and he brought rather than bringing a specific scripture because there isn't one to back this up he brought quote truth by analogy and told a story about a missionary who went to a tribal people you know somewhere deep in africa and. This tribe had not heard the specific type of music with the specific type of beat. And they heard it and immediately you know started praising the demon gods and saying this is this music is the demon gods music or you know something like that and so basically using that analogy to say see any music you even these tribal people know like this kind of music is satanic this kind of music is demonic so therefore clearly we should not be listening like this is of the devil so this kind of music is not what christians should be listening to. But that was the basic idea like that is how the truth by analogy was shared and then those things that he would say you know like okay so therefore beats with these this kind of music is demonic and evil and if you listen to it you will fall out of god's favorite you will be singing therefore you will not have success you will start to see health issues arising your family you will see disaster come upon your children i mean literally like it was that severe to fall out you know to to branch out and like do something that wasn't considered biblically right and so you can imagine. If you are hearing this just about music and then you apply that to very specific rules about modesty there were also very specific guidelines and that's why everybody who would attend any conferences or events that gotthard put on. Everybody all of the women were wearing very modest very long skirts or dresses only no pants because pants were considered very modest and then very much like covered up tops no sleeveless you know things like that and just like the dress for women was so specific for what modesty was but clearly when we look in scripture we see god's call for women to dress modestly we see that that matters but we don't see god giving us this super specific five-step plan for exactly what modesty looks like for us today and what is considered biblical and i'm biblical we just don't see that but much of what gotthard presented in his curriculum would get that specific down to defining exactly what modesty is and then any woman who doesn't pursue that version of modesty is sinning. And so that is why i believe the duggars were skirts only and dresses only and many of the people i knew growing up also would only wear skirts and dresses so and i'm going to get a little bit more into my personal experience with gothard and with. I'm at iblp all of that here in just a second. That just goes to show you how someone who believes out there you know maybe the parent i think many parents had very good intentions they wanted the best for their children but as they got into this curriculum and it was so black and white and it just seemed like wow. Disney on has the answer to everything you know this man like he is figured out exactly 100% how god wants us to live as christians in this modern day and age you can see how parents who didn't have any discipleship growing up themselves are like this is awesome like this gives me everything from a to z every answer that i need and so they adopt the curriculum. They go to the conferences and then they put all of these rules on their family on their children all of these guidelines all of these principles because they want a successful family they want to honor god they want to train children in the way they should go. And so i look back and think you know i think so many parents were very well intentioned. Wanting the best for their kids but this is what happens when you follow one man and he's not jesus and you look to him to be your guide to be your truth to be your compass rather than digging into god's word for yourself. Something else that bill gothard was really known for was this idea called the umbrella of authority and this is something that comes out of one of his seven principles but this umbrella of authority ginger gets into it a little bit and our conversation is the idea that you have authority structures which is true which is biblical there are authority structures there are parent to child you know boss to go to worker to employee to the president like there's all these hierarchies of. Authority and that's true but the way he would apply it was like he would tell this story of an umbrella and say imagine an umbrella and everyone who's in authority over you is like that umbrella and you are under it and when you're under their authority submitting in every way to any authority that's above you. Then you will be safe you will be protected from the storm because you're under the umbrella but if in any way you step outside. You question. You do not obey and this included adult children so adult children who were fully grown if they in any way did not obey their parents if their parents said no you cannot marry that person or no you cannot. Get that job to that adult child then that was considered that child stepping out of the umbrella of authority and therefore they would have calamity you know come upon them and there would be no surprise if their life turned out to be a disaster. And so obviously biblically there is wisdom in a multitude of counselors there's a reason god gave parents to children we need our parents to guide us in truth and all of that stuff pastors and churches shepherds all of that's very good and biblical and there is so much wisdom. In looking to council the bible talks about that but the way he had the authorities structure set up for these different levels of authority it was like there is no room. There is no room for adult children to have any really decisions or choices of their own unless it 100% lines up with the parents in every single way so. How to become independent or never knew they never knew how to make their own decisions or choices because they were always told what to do and they were always just told like obey your parents do what they say and your life will be great and then they're like now the result on their own like i don't know how to do that anymore so i know for a lot of people growing up in that system it caused a lot of problems for them. Later on. So in my opinion i think bill gothard teachings in many ways seem to be based more on fear. Superstition. Legalism. And more on control than on god's word. I'm not just my personal opinion i know everybody has big different opinions about this but when i look back and i look at a lot of the curriculum and even having red ginger's book they were much more immersed in the programs than i ever was it's it seems very clear that this was not biblical so. Quick snippet my experience. Growing up we were not in the ultra conservative community until like my like i was 10 11 12 and i remember my parents came across some of the teachings of bill gothard in the conferences and they were of course they are both first generation christians they did not have any discipleship so they fell into that category totally they want to know what was best for us they were looking for for community for us for like-mindedness for other families who were going in the same direction like wanting to honor god wanting to raise children in the lord and so. They were they saw a lot of things that were appealing about it and i totally get it and i think there is there is truth it's not like every single thing was a lie it's just a lot of it wasn't. The contacts wasn't biblically accurate and the application for sure but there were still a lot of other things that were perfectly fine about it like if you dig in it's like every single thing is heresy. You know there were a lot of things that appeal to my parents and so we we never joined any of the programs we didn't do any of the curriculum at home growing up being homeschooled but we did go to some of the conferences and do some of the programs just kind of like a la carte like okay we'll take that one that seems good okay okay maybe try this one but i remember from the beginning my parents were very hesitant to jump fully into anything that was just led by one man. You know i even remember hearing them talk about it you know like you know there are a lot of things that are great but it's just this one man riding all of this stuff and it seems like it's very much like his opinion he is the authority and they're like you know we're going to go to god's word and we're not going to do everything that he says like we're going to think for ourselves and so i really really appreciate that about my parents and so as a result we went to the program so we went to some of the conferences but my parents were like we don't see anywhere in the bible where it says you can't wear pants like they didn't see that and so we grew up wearing pants wearing shorts playing sports as girls. You know some of the things that bill gothard had laid out was like daughters can never have any sort of job outside of the home ever my parents didn't feel that way so we had jobs growing up outside of the home as well like in a really great healthy way learning how to work hard and earn money and all that you know savings all that stuff. Things like that and so. Yeah even like the relationship guidelines my parents wanted us to pursue relationships in a more intentional way and we were all for that but they weren't like okay where does it say in scripture like if you go like if you're going to get to know a guy like you have to have a sibling with. You at all times like chaperoning you every single minute of every single day they're like we don't really see that in the bible so we did kind of a combination of courtship plus with dating like we would go on dates and things like that but it was just very intentional so just stuff like that so we were involved but we weren't immersed and we were not like bought into everything. As time went on i think my parents saw more and more like okay we're not like this is. This is a little bit crazy like we're not really into all of this and so rather than just like throwing the baby out with the bathwater like everything is horrible and like going off the deep end my parents were like you know what we're just we're going to pursue other things and so we just did other programs and other conferences and kind of slowly faded out of being a part of anything anymore and i'm really grateful for that looking back on it and i'm grateful for this the critical thinking that my parents encouraged us to have when it comes to one man's teachings but i will say that i think it did affect me and i'm even realize more and more now this the past few years i feel like i've been growing. In in realizing that because of that sort of methodology that sort of teaching style where it's like you take one verse and then you make all this application super specific application based on it i think that i took that away from that season of my life without even realizing it and i began to view the bible from that perspective of okay let me find the one application that i can get from this first and then you know figure out exactly down to the details how this needs to be lived out what is biblically true in this area of my life. And although the modesty didn't look the same as the duggars i remember drawing some very specific lines you know reading those verses about modesty and thinking okay well what is that mean like what is modesty for me and then drawing very black and white lines and then not only viewing that modesty standard for myself but thinking okay i have found you know in my heart like this is the modesty standard everybody needs to abide by you know this is the right line and my line was totally different than the duggars like yeah i can wear pants and shorts but the shorts have to be you know this long this far away from the knee or you know i can wear dresses but they can't be this low cut or they have to go all the way to the knee whatever it is it's like i almost thinking back on it like i was the same i had my black and white standards they were just different but in my mind i was viewing my standards as the biblical standards that everybody else you know need to get on board with. Drawing those black and white lines even when it came to relationships or. You don't even music for a season i remember like thinking there's no room to ever listen to anything that isn't explicitly biblical and explicitly christian and then just realizing like you know there's even freedom in that and wisdom and not and how we navigate music and so god has been doing a lot of work in my own heart over the years and i'm super grateful for that and i'm super grateful for how he's grown my perspective of scripture of seeing god of seeing the bible as one complete story about god and about the gospel and about jesus and not a complete story about me where every single thing has to do with me and my application so that's been really helpful i just feel like my perspective on the whole bible and the gospel and the story that's being told has just become so much more dear impressive to me. So to this day i still know so many families who were a part of the ati the iblp the bill gothard community and there really was like such a wide range of families families like my family where they were kind of like partly in but partly skeptical and just kind of taking what they liked and not following every rule down to the. You know the last degree and then there were families who were 100% in who took every single thing he said as like gospel truth and applied every single thing to their life and their families and i think for many of those people there has been a huge fallout. Sadly i think a lot of the kids that i grew up with that were in these communities have completely. Straight from the faith have completely gone away because they were under such intense legalistic style teaching and rules. They were never. Taught how to cultivate a relationship with christ for themselves and so as a result of course it's like that is such a huge burden to be burdened with all of these rules and these teachings not really being taught how to have a thriving personal relationship with christ how to read and study the bible how to see god in it how to understand grace and freedom but truth. Wisdom like all of these things it's hard and so it makes sense but it's so sad. To see so much of the fallout today. And i think this comes as a good warning sign for all of us that. Anytime you follow one man's teachings exclusively and that man is not jesus. That should be a red flag warning when you let someone else do all of the biblical thinking studying researching for you instead of saying okay that's interesting that sounds about biblical but let me go to god's word on my own and do the research for myself. Sadly we often want to be spoon-fed right we want the easy just tell me what to do and i'll do it like what's biblical just give it to me and we aren't like the bereans that scripture talks about we aren't those people who dig into god's word and study it and say well god what do you say what does your word say let me compare everything i'm hearing according to your word we don't have that critical thinking that biblical mindset of like let me take everything back to god's word. So that's what we need to do that's my encouragement from myself that's what i'm striving to do that's what i encourage you to do whether you grew up in this bill gothard community or not it is so easy to follow any sort of influencer any sort of pastor preacher teacher and to view their opinions about the bible as like gospel truth we need to make sure the only gospel truth that's truth is what the gospel is in scripture. One of the ways that i think we saw that recently is with josh harris right and like his whole deconstructing of his faith and so many thousands of people who read his book on i kiss dating goodbye. And you know. Just bought into everything he said 100% like okay josh thank you for the guideline the five-step program for dating we're going to follow it without actually going to scripture and saying okay yeah there's some good value here in this teaching you know not dating in a worldly way but like how can we pursue relationships intentionally like taking some of the wisdom but not viewing him is the ultimate authority and then. Relationships according to exactly what he said i think we saw so much fallout so many people who said like he ruined my life you know all these problems because of him. I don't think it was him i think it was people viewing him as the final authority and not taking what he wrote and then going okay what does god's word say i think that's where we went wrong and i think that's where we're always going to go wrong if we follow one man's teaching exclusively as having the only biblical truth on a certain topic or subject we have to be bereans we have to go to god's word. So that was a mouthful that was way more than i think i was planning to say but i think it's all important and i think it's going to make my conversation with ginger ginger even more valuable to you as you have this understanding this backstory of bill gothard of this movement that is no more and we're going to get into that there was a huge falling out. And lots of allegations that came against him of sexual abuse with women and we're going to get to that here at the end of our conversation. I am so grateful after reading ginger's book that she has not chosen the path of a josh harris of just completely deconstructing her faith and rejecting everything but rather the word she uses in her subtitle of her book i love it disentangle she has chosen to disentangle her faith. From the error which has led her now because she's not rejecting christ like i'm throwing everything out she's like no i need to disentangle what is not true about god what is not true about the scriptures what is not true about god's teachings i need to disentangle the lies. And the error and then look to christ fully. And as a result of her doing this she now has a thriving beautiful gracefield gospel-centered. Elevated view of christ her life is just so free and so beautiful but it's freedom in christ it's grace in christ it's the gospel she is more committed as a servant of the lord and now that she ever was before because her heart is in it for the lord she is following christ and so i am so excited to get into my conversation today with ginger we're about to jump in but as you'll hear in her story there were a lot of twists and turns a lot of things that didn't go according to her plan or even the fact that she's taking a really different path from her family now i know there are a lot of challenges in that and just not really being on the same page and not having those agreements but still loving one another so i just want to say if you're someone who feels like man my life has a lot of twists and turns there are hard things with family or just prayers that i feel like are on answered seasons of life i thought i would be in but i'm not then i just want to encourage you to grab a copy of our book at girl to find our most recent book called not part of the plan. Trusting god with a twist and turns of your story. Encouragement to you as you're on your own journey of trusting god with wherever he has you right now in the valleys in the lows in the unknowns in the fear you're feeling anxious. Please grab a copy whether you i don't care if you get a free get it from your library get the audiobook not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of your story i think you're going to find it super super encouraging. Without further ado let's dive into my conversation with ginger i am so excited for this conversation today because if you're watching on youtube you can see that i have with me jinger duggar volo and you may recognize the duggar name from the reality tv hit show that she was on with her family 19 kids and counting and then the sequel counting on and she recently came out with a book called becoming free indeed my story of disentangling faith. From fear and i am so excited to dig into your story ginger welcome to the girl to find show. Thanks so much for having me kristen. Okay so i read your entire book before this because i was so intrigued for one when i saw it come out and i was just really like i wanted to learn and grow as well because i grew up in a similar background so in your book you talk about this christian subculture you talk obviously a lot about bill gothard iblp the big ati conferences and i remember. Going to some of the same conferences as you like seeing your family there and seeing your parents speak. And it was interesting because although we went to some of the events and like did some of the programs my parents were always a little bit hesitant about joining. We played sports and we wore pants but we still my parents like we still like some of these principles i'm from a big family nine kids feel small compared to your family but it's just so interesting so much of what you were sharing in your book i was like oh my goodness wow i had never thought of it that way or wow you know i'm not really in that scene anymore but she's so right about so many of the principles and the things that were taught the through these programs and so i was just waiting on a personal level i was encouraged by the way you were digging into scripture and just the way that you were saying look we've got to look at god's word we've got to look to him for our answers and not a program not a principal and not one man. And as i was looking through some of the comments on your social media that someone had commented regarding your book this one girl said she's like i've been watching the duggars for years i love their show but what is she talking about like cult like religion or breaking free like she was so confused like what is going on. And although i feel like i can relate to a lot of what you've shared in your book i think some people listening right now might feel like. What is she breaking free from what is a cult like what is she talking about so can you just give us a quick nutshell on what that means. Yes so my story that i wanted to tell in this book becoming free indeed. Because i did grow up under some harmful theology that it threatened me fearful and confused about who jesus is. And so this is the story of how i've had to. What i'd say disentangle truth from error on my way to finding freedom in jesus. And this story has been something that i've really wanted to share because like you said you were kind of your family kind of double the little bit like take some pieces from it. But for those who were totally. Engrossed in the teachings. It was really sad to see a lot of the kids just. Leaving christianity entirely because it was just so confusing they were so confused about. What what is true and what is not true. And so that's what really gave me a desire to write this book. When you mention a cult-like religion what does that mean. Yeah i think that these teachings i can't say okay it is a cold cuz i think. The experts would have to say that. But when i look at it it has certain dimensions of that. Because i think when you follow and focus on like you said one leader and it becomes this. This focus on this one person thinking he has these answers that he's giving to us. I'm from god and multiple people including myself maybe at some point. Okay this guy may be a prophet from god maybe god sent him to share this this these teachings that i wouldn't have been able to figure out anywhere else. And so that in itself was enough to like now looking back on like that was that was crazy that i thought that. But whenever you're in that setting. It's it's tough to leave because. Bill gothard. The way he taught the bible. It was focused on he said if you if you abide by my seven basic principles if you live these out. Your life will be a success you'll be blessed by god but don't. Then your life will be one disaster after another. And so the community i grew up in was very tight-knit and i really believed that i remember seeing a friend who left that setting. And she started. Wearing pants and i was very bothered for her because i was like you know what you're doing. You're going to bring disaster on yourself if you start doing that if you step outside of any little. Your life is going to. Be you know destroyed so. That's why. That and then multiple it could keep going i asked him why because it's just it's so sad to see how. I think whenever kids are trying to leave that that's a lot of kids who just genuinely in the beginning weren't saved. Make the beauty of the gospel something to focus on its it's focusing on your performance man-made religion all these rules as being. What will either gain you favor with god or will. I really appreciate it early on in your book maybe it was even an intro where you talked about how this book isn't a tell-all about your family and i know you're pretty close to your family i'm really close to my family you know big family but somehow it's like wow it doesn't feel huge cuz you're close and you know you have the siblings that you're closer to and what not i'm the second oldest and then there are five girls three boys and really close to my sister's really close to my parents and i know you're similar in that because just the way you talk about them in your book and the way you talk about your childhood in so many things that you appreciate about what your parents did and how they raise you but i can't help but wondering now as you're coming out with this it's not a tell all it's your personal journey but i don't know are they on a different journey probably so like how do they feel about you sharing all of this. Yeah i wanted to stay at the beginning that this is not a tell about my family because. It's interesting when you're in the public eye. You you learn okay if i'm going to speak out about anything. Then it it just can be tough because we will all have differences there are so many of us and i know it could be turned into a headline here or there. But at the end of the day. This story is my story about how. Left these teachings and i will say that i had a very sweet childhood my parents sought to. Give us the sweetest childhood that we could. Have and they also just sacrifice so much for us and pointed us to jesus. And at the same time i can see. Okay they they were wrapped up in these teachings as well and bill gothard. He he would teach these things as like a guarantee is success for your family so. Parents would get wrapped up in that thinking this is going to be what's best for my kids. And i can see that. And say okay i understand it i get it cuz i was there. And this book. I didn't want it to be anything. But sharing my story how i came out of these teachings hopefully it'll be win some for anybody still in the teachings can read this book and say. It's it's done in a way that's respectful and. Tasteful and at the same time i come down hard on the teachings of bill gothard because it's so damaging and i see. Parents got wrapped up in that but it needs to be exposed it needs to be said and so. Whenever i first started. You know wearing pants there were there were a lot of people who would say okay ginger is doing this for a certain reason. But that's just not the case i live my life. According to the bible and so if i didn't see that in the bible then i would i had a conversation with my family and would say okay this is why i don't see this in the word of god. And at the end of the day we can agree to disagree on a lot of these different issues. And. I think that they just. Really want what's best for me. And the same for them as i do and i would just hope that people the reader could come away sing. That that is the tone throughout the book is that it i want to share. My story. And hopefully it will be helpful to even just one person to come out of these teachings. Have you been able to talk with any of your siblings or parents about the book specifically. Yes i have yeah so i talked with my parents before. I said anything publicly to anyone and we were able to have that conversation they're still in the teachings. And i don't know how many of my siblings are i think some of them have kind of. Left the teachings not all of them but i'll let them speak for themselves on that. And so yeah i just i shared with him that i was writing it and one of them to know up front. And then. At the end of the day like i don't i don't know what everyone's responses will be to the book. But i just wanted to speak truth part of that was because i wrote a book with my sisters. Back years ago and it had a lot of these principles in there from bill gothard. And so i wanted to come back and say. Okay i i i see. That that was wrong and these teachings are harmful and so i wanted to bring the balancing truth of the gospel of jesus being the answer and not following this man like you said it's it's so important that we follow the word of god. That we don't get. Like so focused on. Even the externals where the speaking where scripture speaks and being silent or scripture set is silent is something that. I realize more and more everyday it's so important. Amen to all of that. What was it like switching gears a little bit and by the way i will say after reading your book and even thinking like. Wow my family is so close like how would they feel if i came out with something and you know like wow the lord's really been teaching me all these things that i felt like. For sure the way you wrote to me came across so winsome and so gracious and so loving it was just a very transparent honest but gracious approach and sharing your story and not condemning anyone but saying like this is the freedom i found in christ and it was really beautiful to read so great job i just thought you did a wonderful job. What was it like i know you said the camera started rolling when you were 10 years old so what was it like just briefly being on reality tv growing up on it really for all those years. It was interesting i am so grateful for the opportunities that the show brought to us because. Being such a large family it would have been. Crazy expensive to travel the world but. The show provided the opportunity and i look back on those years i was like wow i traveled. So much i flew all over the country all over the world. And i'm so grateful for that because it opened my eyes to. The beauty of travel the beauty of different countries. That was such a sweet thing to be able to do with my family. And and then at the same time like i would look at. The reality tv side of it and say okay that was it's a challenge like the older you get. You can always look back on those times and say oh man. I i was raised in on tv in my most difficult times i was walking through. People. D necessarily. But there are sometimes when they would see that and it was really difficult because you have to always. Be ready to speak in almost always be on. And that was something that i just felt like was so normal. And looking looking back now i'd say okay. My younger self. I was in the system very comfortable and so part of it was i would look at the show as. Maybe sharing these principles with people and that's a good thing cuz then they can come in to book authors teachings and their life will be a success so i was grateful for that opportunity as a young kid. And now i look back and say okay. I would have shared a different message with him. Share more of the grace of god. In the beauty of being a child of god. And how he relates to his children and things like that that i i think i missed. And then also the performance side of it. It was. It was interesting like you you walk through the most challenging seasons of your life in a very public way and that it's just hard. Wow and you did you feel like you could be honest about some of those challenges or was the idea like best foot forward smiles on when the cameras were rolling. I think it depends on what the challenge was. Like when my grandma died i remember they were there at her funeral and that was kind of interesting tv cameras there. And i was crying a lot and. Those those situations that we walk through were very real and very normal i think a lot of people relate to that. And then at the same time when whenever. We walk through even more challenging stuff with my brother. And it was something that i just couldn't have expected to walk through in a public way. And. That was hard. How are we going to navigate this something you mentioned in chapter one of your book is an online group that was started while you were on tv called free jinger. Free jinger and basically this group wanted me to be freed from my life i think they would see me like roll my eyes on camera or do things like that but i was just being funny like i was just a very funny personality with a lot of spunk a lot of life and so i would kind of lean into. Being that that character. Took this and ran with it and made a narrative of wanting me to run away from my family and move to the big city because i would see when we travel to cities i would always comment on how i loved the busyness and i thought how cool it would be to live in new york city one day. It's really funny so they leaned heavily into that. And made a thing of it and i think they genuinely. Looking back like i said okay i think they saw some of the errors of this teaching and thought it was very oppressive and wanted me to come free of that but leave christianity all together. I i could see one side and say oh well they were gracious enough to like think about me. At that time but my conclusion is different so i have all these years later i'll look back at that and say huh that's interesting. But then my conclusion is totally different i've come to freedom in christ not freedom from throwing off all restraints and. You know living the good life as they would say but living the good life is. With jesus and close relationship. Knowing him. I just thought that was so funny when you were sharing in your book like there's this whole movement like wanting to free me i'm like. Tell us a little bit about i know we can't get into everything regarding like the teachings and bill gothard and the principals but for people who are like okay what were these principles i know you really go in length in your book so if anybody wants more about this just grab her book becoming free indeed but like there are seven principles that bill gowther outline for success you had really bought into all of these it sounds like and you felt like this is almost salvation like this is the way so just give us a quick file over what were they and how did they impact your view of the christian life. Yeah so bill gothard had the seven basic principles for life and like i said he said like if you would follow them your life would be a success so i would focus my life on like okay today. I want to honor my parents which the bible speaks about honoring your parents it's true. By the bill gothard would say okay. The principle of authority it means that you know you're under this protection. If you're under your parents authority. That means you know you're doing everything that they say. And the second that you disobey your opening yourself up to satan's attacks and so even if i was confessing saying i was like oh no i have to confess everything to my parents almost like a priest it was kind of interesting i had this mindset that was off. About. What was required of me and so i would be so introspective and i'll look at myself and i'd say oh no did i did i obey did i obey this principal today. Did i you know honor my parents in every way i should otherwise i was sure satan was just able to attack me even as once i was a believer. Escalated because i i had no. I was trying to like. Do all these things i was trying to live this good life. But these external rules can never change your heart. They're only able to you can put it up for so long but then whatever is truly in your heart is going to come out because true transformation only comes from the inside out when jesus changes your heart and salvation. Trying to obey my parents trying to you know have a proper view of like the design what is design okay that's that's one of the principles i have to like lean into that what does god say about design god designed me this way and now i need to you know dress a certain way and all this i would like fall into this do do do do do me me me me. Instead of looking to jesus and saying okay i want to look to the word of god i want to see what god's word says. Standards. So that's how. I would view my life. And i genuinely thought this is what you know i knew that salvation wasn't by works and my mind but book of deny that in his teaching. It feels like it was so much more and i remember this just from a few of the events that we went to we never really did as a family like the curriculum like i said my parents were they liked some of what they saw but then they had concerns about a lot of it and now we're not involved in any of it. But it did feel very much like a checklist of rules and less about a relationship so these are the rules of of a you know these are the rules of being a good christian you know follow all of these rules and you will have abundance you will have success you will have health and wealth and all of these like prosperity gospel promises and in fact side story i remember i was at an event once and i met bill gothard in person and you described in your book how it's like this big moment if you meet him and i remember feeling that way like this is such a huge deal i was in this line and we got to meet him and he asked me and he said so is your family are they members of ati of the organization. And so hilarious the reason we weren't discuss my parents originally had looked into joining and one of the rules for men was that they could not have a beard. Asked me that i literally told him i was like well my parents looked into joining but my dad has a beard and one of the rules says that men can't have beard so we weren't able to join any kind of laughed he was like oh and then he said well tell your parents to look into joining again we'll make sure that they get in or whatever. That's part of it though cuz he's the authority. Yes. What makes no sense so i thought you would get a kick out of that and then when i got my parents were like oh how'd it go like meeting him i told them and they were like my dad was like you told him that. Rethinking. What was going on i know we don't have a ton of time left so just give us the flyover when you were rethinking what you'd been taught what was happening and then we're going to get into when you met your husband jeremy right after this. Yeah i started thinking about okay. How could how could all of this stuff like how is it all true i don't i don't know i thought it was for so many years even when bill arthur fell from grace i still kind of like. Maybe it wasn't true maybe it was somebody trying to get him or. I just wanted to deny all of those allegations and so i think a lot of people listening aren't going to be familiar with the allegations. Yes so bill gothard how to fall from grace in the early years and then reinstated himself and ministry and then continued for many years but it wasn't until. There was a lawsuit filed against him with 30 plus women had accused him. Of sexual misconduct and. That ended up statute of limitations. In that time i just totally denied that any of that was possible cuz i thought how could a prophet of god or how could somebody. Who has such good teachings. Have done any of this so. Moving forward how i came out of these teachings i saw my brother-in-law now brother-in-law been. It was when he was talking to my sister jessa we would go visit his family they did things a little bit different they would like wear pants or the girls would work outside the home or go to college and i saw some of those things and thought okay well their family. Loves jesus and i've seen other families do that but. Being inside their home and see how okay they have a different commitment to the word of god even they read the bible differently. And they're not trying to. Add to it or take away. And they just want to be committed to what does the word of god say walking verse by verse through the bible at the church. And that was something that it really. Was beautiful for me to see in it and so i started reading the bible. A little differently like thinking okay. I want to see what the context is of the word of god this passage i'm reading. Instead of trying to put myself into every single verse and. What is the sports say to me today oh i'm about to go shopping okay what does it talk about it's about frugality what is it about you know like i said everything. That that shifted in my mind and i started reading the bible. That god has written and i'm not placing myself into every text. That shifted but it wasn't until i met my husband jeremy. Come on on the scene he was raised in a different setting than i was in a christian home but. His family was committed to. He he and his siblings had a very different life than i did. And so he had been playing professional soccer. End up passing a church when i met him he was just starting to pastor this church. He ended up being asked by my dad before we could get. To talking like you they said okay just listen to 60 plus hours of bill gothard teaching so you can know what perspective we're coming. What i mean sure yeah whatever you can do whatever. He started listening to these teachings and the first few he was like huh. He has some interesting things to say kind of more philosophical but okay like. It's all right. The further in he got. This is not know ginger this is not bible teaching and i was. Caught me off guard kind of shook me up because that was my foundation for everything. Are these teachings and so. At the same time though that that was happening. It was also like. In aha moment. But the lord just opening my eyes to seeing that. This is not what christianity is all about. What kind of food we eat. That's not what righteousness in holiness is about it doesn't come from that and so i started to see. Another beautiful side even though it was scary at first because i was promised my life was going to be destroyed if i stepped outside of these teachings. I at the same time how to freedom in my heart because i knew. Okay as soon as i don't see this in the word of god. I'm convinced and i'm only going to be convinced of these teachings of being true if they're in the word of god so. Part of the like not examining bill gothard teachings i was like how was i in there for so long. We weren't supposed to question. So i thought okay like once i question it it doesn't stand up for itself i can't cuz it's not in the word of god. And that's what set me free because as you're walking through these. Teaching after teaching. The legalistic side of the standards that i thought were convictions. Those things fell off. And i started to see the beauty of jesus in a whole new light. Although it took me years to get there to where i wasn't condemning myself for. Not reading the bible in the morning if i had if i had. Cranky child woke up late. I was i would like be scared for so many years like oh no i didn't read the bible first thing in the morning for 5 minutes didn't pray for 5 minutes. Like god is waiting to. Smite me as his child if i. Don't do these things. And even sin like if i sinned and said a harsh word to jeremy like i would just. Fear in the in a in a wrongful fear not an on reverence of god is. Looking at him and enduring him in that way. It was like. Only the terror of god that i would focus on. Yeah man. So he is. Jeremy he's not your husband yet but he's questioning all of these teachings i know bill gothard has like the basic principles the advanced like. So much that you can get into with all of his resources and materials and curriculum. So your parents at the time didn't say no stop getting to know this guy he doesn't follow our teachings like the foundation of what our family believes how was it okay for you to court him with him differing so much on these things. Yeah at that time i think i was just like taking in what we were talking about cuz we were we were almost engaged at that point and so okay i was just taking these teachings internally thinking through it in the second i saw it wasn't in the word of god. That's where i was like. This doesn't matter because it's. Not only does it not matter it's wrong. And so in my mind there was a shift. And so it wasn't until years later of talking through the specifics of that. Once we were already married talking through the specifics of the teaching slowly. With my family that i think we started to like. You know discuss that stuff because i am my own heart. Had been freed from that i saw this is wrong. And and i didn't even see how harmful it was at first it was just more like okay. External things or these teachings that he said were based in the bible aren't. So i can set that aside. And i can see even. Maybe even some of the difference is that jeremy had initially had with me. It's not. Is big of a deal because i used to think that. My future spouse was going to have to have the exact same teachings to build up for our family and for kids to be okay and not fall from not fall away from jesus. But once i saw that wasn't the issue. Then there was a piece and a safety and i knew i remember even telling my mom i feel so safe with him. God. I i prayed for and i desire to have a husband so. That's where i felt safe. Mom and your parents were okay with the fact that he wasn't he didn't go up in the same community or even have a lot of the same beliefs yeah they knew that they knew that he came from a different setting but that he loved jesus at the end of the day. And so they gave their full blessing for us to get married. That's awesome and how long have you guys been married now. We've been married for six years and you have two little girls right little girls 4 and 2 felicity and evangeline. Oh how sweet and you guys are out in california. We are yes. We we love it out here we have a great church that were a part of. It's been such a joy to be able to just. Grow and learn every day in this amazing church community that we have out here oh that's so awesome and you guys can hear more about her whole story and the end of it and where she is now in her book but just wrapping it up with a few more questions i know a lot of people who are familiar with your last name or your former last name duggar have heard your brother's name a lot because of his name just being in the news and just. The sadness surrounded with that and so i was when i read your book and chapter 11 you mentioned him and just your compassion and your heart for him in your prayer for him for two people who aren't familiar i know it's your he's the oldest daughter right josh was convicted of downloading and possessing child pornography in 2021 is that right. Comparison between your brother josh and bill gothard. Why did you feel like it was important to do that. You know it's it's been such a difficult thing to. Walk through that season and other thing like i said just being in the public eye and having. Walkthrough time and time again so much pain. Publicly. And at the same time. I think i wanted to share a bit about. This in the book because this is the whole. I think it goes back to. The perspective on what is it to be pleasing to god it's not putting up an outward front acting like you're okay when inside your heart is not changed by the gospel. And like i said that can't be done just. By yourself like trying to muster up the courage. Or put on these outward things that's going to. Sadly that's what happened with my brother and even with bill gothard you can put on those. Put up the front for so long but then god will expose what is truly in your heart. And my prayer is for bill gothard and for my brother josh that would both come to saving faith in jesus christ and that they would be broken. Over there send. And that's something that. We can only pray and ask the lord to do. For people who are still following bill gothard still following the teachings and and thinking they're fighting more freedom in the rules really than the relationship with christ what do you want them to know. Who jesus truly is and as like whether you're outside. Knowing jesus that you would put your faith and trust in jesus call upon the name of the lord be saved repent of your sins put your faith and trust in jesus. And for anyone who is inside the teachings and is confused just examine everything according to the word of god don't put your trust in a man thinking that he has some special teaching outside of scripture anytime. That happens run as far and as fast as you can from that teaching or from that. Person because if they claimed to have some element on truth that no one else has discovered it's just not the case and so unto jesus run to the word of god it has all the answers for life's problems. Last question how are you and jeremy raising your girls differently than the way that you were raised. Yeah it's interesting i think. Everyday. We realize how little we know about parenting we have a 4 and a 2 year old we haven't had to like. Talk through major stuff or anything it's more just like. Very basic stuff that were we are trying to instill in them but i think even at these younger years they see who you truly are. And i want to be the same that i am at home as i am at church. And it's not always easy cuz kids are just kids and they're so young. It's we want them to know the beauty of jesus and is still in. To have a relationship with jesus and not based on our performance. But based on the grace of god. That is awesome you guys are doing such a great job. Where can people find your book i'm sure it's available everywhere yes it's available wherever books are sold and i think that if you go to our website ginger and jeremy.com we have all the links to wherever books are sold there okay and where can people follow you guys on social media. Social media i'm on instagram at ginger volo. And then my husband is at jeremy underscore volo. Ginger thank you so much for coming on the girl to find show for chatting with me this was such an encouraging eye-opening and just quite frankly refreshing conversation thank you for your book. For what you're doing to speak the true gospel and to encourage an entire generation of people that i know many of them grew up in that community and really need to be freed by the truth of the gospel so thank you so much thank you so much for having me i don't know about you but i found that conversation so encouraging so eye-opening and just so gospel-centered like i'm just so proud of ginger and what she's doing and the way that she is. Unafraid like being a baldwin is for the true gospel of jesus christ stepping outside of everything that she was raised in. Everyone that she knew in so many ways are tightening community to say. I have seen that this is not rooted in the true gospel and jesus is so much better he is worth it even if it means i'm going to lose things i'm going to lose relationships i'm going to be rejected by the people that you know the people who used to be all the people i had i mean she's so willing to proclaim christ and to do it in such a gracious and win some way so i am so thankful for that conversation i found her book personally really encouraging just having come from someone of a similar world not exactly the same we weren't we definitely weren't into all like bill arthur's teachings in the same way but definitely grew up conservative and found myself in many ways drawing very black and white lines and finding my security like i said at the beginning. In religion and not really rooted in my relationship with christ so if you find that you have that same tendency and you want christ to be the center of your heart and the true gospel to be what you are changed by and motivated by and transformed through. Then grab a copy of her. Twists and turns like ginger has and right now you're in some of those twists and turns and you're like this is hard how do i trust god how do i find hope and contentment and peace in this valley then grab a copy of our latest book here at girl defined called not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of your story i think you'll also find so much encouragement for your personal journey wherever god has you whatever season you're in as you're walking through the hard i think you'll find out how to do that with hope and trusting god for the story he has for you and not maybe the one you've always imagined for your own life and you can find not part of the plan wherever books are sold or on our website to find out all right guys if you appreciate this episode of conversations like this you know i say this every time it takes like three seconds to leave us a five-star rating over on apple or spotify wherever you're able to leave a rating and a review and to say what you like about the show you know what other guests you'd like us to have on i know it's it feels like a big ass but it just takes a few seconds and your ratings really encouraged us so much when we get those positive reviews we remind us that you're out there that you're listening that where the sisterhood i read them regularly and as you all know there are a lot of people who really don't like our show and don't like the message of jesus and what we proclaim here at girl define and so they intentionally come over and try to sabotage our reviews by leaving us tons of one star reviews which is a bummer but i know that it's just kind of the way it is so if you're someone who appreciates this and you're like i want this to continue on i want more of this content. Would you just take a couple seconds to jump over to spotify or apple and leave a five-star review leave a quick comment i would love to read it and that will also help other women to find the podcast as you rate it it pushes it out and the algorithm and helps it to get more exposure so other women can join the sisterhood and be a part of what we're doing here at girl define. Okay guys come hang out with me over on instagram at girl define i would love to hear your thoughts and comments on this episode with ginger i know it was so fascinating let's continue the conversation over there on instagram after fine i'll see you there. 