Today on the girl to find show i'm talking to rochelle star she's the founder of scarlet hope a ministry focused on bringing the gospel of jesus to women in the adult entertainment industry. If you've ever wondered how someone can practically bring the gospel into a strip club michelle is here to show us how it's done and what that looks like and it is powerful she brings us insight into the adult entertainment industry the sex industry what it looks like today where it crosses the lines in america from being legal to illegal what she has seen as she's worked with thousands of women she gives us insight into why and how so many of these women get involved in sex work and it may not be for all the reasons that you're thinking. What's the second biggest industry in the world right after the drug industry it is so sad and so many of these women are trafficked into it she shares her first experience ever when she felt like god was calling her to minister to women in the sex industry at the age of 23 she walked into a strip club with the goal of sharing the gospel and the hope of jesus with the women who worked there by bringing them home cooked meals and all she has some wild stories to share how she went back week after week ministering to the same women in the strip clubs bringing them food and loving them and showing them the love of christ and you'll get into it in the episode one story of a woman who worked in the sex industry she felt trapped in this industry for over 50 years and how god used for shell on that woman's 50th birthday. To bring the hope of jesus to her and that woman made the choice for the first time to walk a different path forward as she found freedom and hope and a new identity in christ there is so much that we are going to unpack today in this conversation you are going to be blown away and probably brought to tears like i was as you hear the incredible transforming work that god is doing and some of the darkest places in our cities hey sisterhood it's kristen here and i am so pumped that you're joining me for this conversation if you are a long time listener welcome back if this is your first episode ever joining us i am so glad that you're here and i hope that you will stick around a week after week and become a part of the girl to find sisterhood where we are passionate about following god's design about being transformed by jesus and understanding that the only one who can define us is the one who designed us and there is real freedom to be found within our creators beautiful design and understanding that his plan for our womanhood is truly for our own good and it's so beautiful despite what ever culture it may say we look to our creator to be our designer and there's so much freedom and that my conversation today with michelle before we jump in i just want to say a few things and i mention this in the episode at the end but i think it's really important as we're listening to these incredible stories of these women that god has just used rochelle to minister to bringing the power of the gospel in these really dark places is to not compare and to think wow you know these women are there in the sex industry i would never do that or i can't imagine you know selling my body for profit or working night after night in a strip club whatever it is you know a porn actress like i can't i could never imagine doing that and if you could never imagine doing that i mean that's probably a good thing but what i'm trying to get out here is that i think it's easy sometimes for us as christians to categorize people and to think okay there are worse centers and less worse sinners there are the women who are really really really really really really really really sexy and then those of us who are pretty pure you know and almost put ourselves in these different categories but the truth is when we look in god's word. We see that every single one of us is sexually broken. Every single one of us is impure at the foot of the cross we are all equal in that we are equally centers equally in need of the transforming work of christ of the blood of christ on the cross to forgive us of our sins and give us new life in christ we all need that. Equally and so something that we found to be so important in this conversation regarding sexuality for every single one of us whether you're a woman coming out of the sex industry being freed by the gospel of jesus or a woman who grew up in church and you're like i've never done that i don't i can't ever imagine doing that but you have your own sexual struggles you have your own sexual brokenness it may just look different but we're all in need of the gospel so none of us here can judge the other because we all need jesus equally and that is something we really wanted to emphasize in our book sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart on that regardless of what your sexual choices have been when you look back on your life and you think man i totally messed up there or i didn't understand that i was trapped in the center or maybe right now i'm walking in some sort of sexual struggle sexual and i don't know how to get freedom i don't know how to get out of this bondage that i'm walking in then i encourage you to grab a copy of sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart because in that book we unpack. The beauty and the freedom that can be found as we understand. God defined sexuality as we understand the reality that our sexuality are longings are desires they have been broken they have been warped there is sin as a result of the fall in genesis 3 and now every part of her sexuality has been impacted by sin and because of that there will be distortion there will be temptation there will be sin and struggle there will be people who sin against us and it's all a part of the broken world that we live in the broken world that jesus is coming back one day to redeem. And make new once and for all but for now we are living in this in between time in this world in this brokenness and so in our book we really unpack for women specifically. A biblical understanding of sexuality of sex of intimacy a biblical understanding of lust of sin of sexual temptation of habitual sin we give you practical scripture to dig into as a woman and say how do i walk in freedom how do i understand this biblically the world has a lot to say and i feel confused and so we strive to bring clarity into this conversation about sexuality specifically for women and so whether you're someone who's really struggling with something right now or you're like you know i don't have any major struggles right now praise god but i don't really feel like i have a biblical framework when i think about sex and intimacy sexuality for myself or for others and so that is also what the book on packs so i encourage you whether for you for a friend a young woman that your mentoring this is a conversation that we need to be having as women it's not hush hush it's not weird it's not taboo it's normal god made us sexual beings we need to be able to talk about this and even more importantly we need to be able to understand all of these issues from a biblical framework so please grab a copy of sex purity and the longings of a girl's heart i don't care if you. Bookstore get it free from your library you can also purchase it from girl to find.com get it on amazon wherever books are sold i just want you to get your hands on it we have an audio version and an ebook version if that's easier for you because i know. Freedom from their struggle from their sin or just reframe their perspective of sexuality altogether single and married women god has used that in their lives in tremendous and tremendous ways so grab a copy. I think you will not regret it okay let's dive in to my amazing conversation with rochelle. Rochelle welcome to the girl to find show. And thank you for having me kristen i'm honored to be here and excited. Like i said in the intro i have never talked to anybody about this topic specifically i was just something that is so important but you know you have to have the right person the right person with the right story and ministry and testimony to really be able to dig into this so i'm so glad that our paths crossed and that we have this chance to ask you all of the questions that many of us wonder you know what goes on in the adult entertainment industry how does a woman get into that what goes on behind the scenes how do you minister to people in that arena how do you bring gospel hope how is it received i've got a lot of questions but before we get to all of that i would love just to get to know you a little bit better by going back in time to your younger years you're growing up here did you always have this passion you know what was your life as a like as a young girl where you end up leaving home on believing home kind of take us back in time and give us a quick flyover. Yeah i grew up in a christian home but. My parents were very young christians my parents got married at 19 had me at 20 my dad had recently gave his life to the lord when i was born so i i actually interestingly enough grew up. Parents that had that first fire and and real passion for the gospel and for jesus because it had just changed. Their life and so. Growing up as a little kid i moved around a lot my dad went to bible college at ozark christian college. And he became a senior pastor of several several churches and youth pastor of different churches. And so i grew up in the church but the difference in my childhood. As opposed to maybe a lot of preachers kids is. My dad and my parents really lived out what it was like. To to love people that were on lovely and so i commonly grew up. With my dad bringing homeless people to church picking up. The town drunk and bringing him or her to church on sunday mornings that was my example of how you lived out the gospel and so growing up. That's what i know that that's really all i know. So i got married young too i got married at 21 and the lord just. Really started. Giving me a passion and desire to seek him and how was i going to live out the gospel in my own life. It sounds like your parents were amazing i mean. Not like they weren't afraid they were willing to reach out across lines and minister to people that were hurting and broken and very different than them so for you it sounds like that was just normal like yeah this is what it means to share the gospel and love people. Yeah you know i was actually and i talked about this in my book is i was actually very sick as a child i had a terminal illness. And that god miraculously healed me from when i was nine but all through that and and looking back i can say my parents could have become consumed with me and certainly they were to a degree. With my physical health and my doctor's appointments and all of that but all while i was. Going through that my parents had our dinner table was full of people that. Most people wouldn't want to have at their dinner table and so it just showed me what a loving. And if he was here on this earth what he would be doing and so i just had that constant. Reminder as a child so yeah my parents are pretty fantastic yeah no kidding that's amazing that's just so inspiring to me as a mom now thinking. What what do my kids see as the gospel is it just ministering to people that look like us and you know seem like us or they're in the same season of life stage or are they seeing more than that so that is that's awesome i love that so clearly you had that was normal for you so when did you start ministering to women in the adult entertainment industry how did you even get into that when did you become passionate about that tell us more. So growing up even though my dad and my parents lived this way i i didn't know what the sex industry was i lived in very small towns and didn't even have strip clubs. So fast forward. I get married my husband was on staff at a church and i began asking the lord. I believe is really the holy spirit prompting me to pray. Specific prayer. God if i'm going to be here on this earth what have you given me to do what is my purpose and who are my people. I had no. At the time when i'm 21 praying this prayer i would pray it daily on my way into work. I worked in the corporate life i was advertising marketing manager and so i love that life i. It was fine i was good at it all the while though in my spirit i was like. Is this what i was created to do because i'm not sure there's there's some. Some things that i still feel like. Asking of me but i don't know what they are and so. 2007 you know sex trafficking human trafficking wasn't even talked about i knew nothing about it had heard anything about it. And i was i had passed on my way to work a theater. Now this is a truck stop that sells. Videos sexual videos in it and has you know paraphernalia and all those types of things but i didn't know anything about it. And i. Gently heard the holy spirit say. Rachelle i'm sending you to the people there to share my hope and my love. And it was. It was i've never questioned what my purpose or my calling was i was i know it was from the lord i know it was. His plane for my life and from there. I called up my husband i said god is god is sending me he spoke to me. This is who he's sending me to and you know i have no idea what my husband would say and yeah these are the words that came out of his mouth that's exactly what jesus would do. And i was like. All right let's go. So you have this this passion you feel like okay i this is going to be my people group but at this point it sounds like you had never interacted with people in the sex industry you barely i mean you obviously knew it existed but you doesn't sound like you were super familiar with it so how did you go from driving by that place getting this strong prompting from the lord like this is this is my people to actually ministering did you know anyone doing this kind of ministry did you start a ministry from the ground up what did that look like. I mean the very first thing i did was i obviously told my husband i obviously i also told my best friend and she was pivotal in this calling and in this vision that the lord had really laid on my heart because. She immediately said also i'll go wherever you want to go just like ruth did. To naomi and so i feel like the lord was lining it up far before i ever knew it but i started researching. And i and we did something that was really again prompted by the holy spirit i didn't know what to do i didn't know how to go to those. People are those places. So we started prayer driving around the city of louisville. Every tuesday night we would go out we would fast and we would pray and ask god to show us. Where was he was at calling us and how. I did this we did this together for 18 months. And i heard the lord say it's time to go like i've prepared you i've called you i prepared you you've prayed enough now it's time to take the next step. That's when we started it was a tuesday night in august of 2008. And that's when i walked into a strip club for the very first time. In my whole life and i was very confident that's where god was calling me to go. Wow were you scared were you nervous did you know what you were going to say i mean how do you even you walk in how do you know who to talk to do you say like hi can i speak to the ladies who work here i mean. What happened. So it's interesting what happens whenever the lord does the work. She if you were listening to his. Spirit he gives you every step you need to take. Not something that. You know there's nothing special about me i didn't really even learn that growing up. I was prompted by the lord to listen to him. So going into the strip club for the first time. I told the funny story i wore no makeup my hair was back i wore a black turtleneck because i did not want anyone to think i was there for a job. Oh that's so funny. I was just in my head i had made up this story that if i'm a woman going into this place this is exactly what they're going to think and so i wanted to be really you know above approach. And so i go in there and i'm asking the lord in my spirit the whole time like who do i talk to where do i go what do i do. And he led us and it's interesting too because i love to share this part of the story about the first time. I went to the bartender and my i had brought some friends with me. And we just ordered like dr peppers and sprite and she looked at us and we are so out of place and she said. What are you guys doing here and i said the only thing i was like god give me the words yes i was like the only thing that i could say to this woman was jesus sent us. To do something kind and loving for the women in this place. Can we bring it home cooked meal and she told me no. I was like but i was so confident that god had said this place this night here and now. So i didn't give up i got to know her and a little while later went to a different area of the club. Ask the lord. Who do i speak to what do i do how do i say this. Just like you and i are talking here. The holy spirit i felt a prompt in my heart my friend was talking to me. And i just heard god say get up and go over to this man and i went over to this man. Are shook his hand i said hi my name is rochelle i'm not here for a job i'm here because jesus sent us here to do something kind and loving for the people in this place can we bring in a home-cooked meal. And to my surprise. With his jaw kind of dropped to the floor he said you know what's the catch. And i'm i'm like lord what's the catch here and he's and i said nothing we want them to know jesus loves them. And he said when can you come in and that was the start of our ministry. Who was this man was he in charge. He was the owner of the club yeah. Did you know that when you approached him. Amongst the men you know like what was going on. He was just walking through the crowd i i truly did not know him from any other person had sent for the holy spirit saying. That man so. When i ended up my friends and i ended up talking to him for an hour and 45 minutes. About his story and why he was in this business and why he still here and all these things and. That is. Yes i mean god clearly led you straight to him. I'm so curious this doesn't have anything to do with your story but just as an aside. Can you give us a recap on what he said why was he in that industry and obviously still in it what was it a nutshell of history. Yeah the nutshell is his parents owned the club for 50. Beers i mean it had been in his family on his 7th birthday his family his parents. Took him to the club. And his birthday present was getting a lap dance. Well i'm meeting this man at about 38 years old okay so this was a long time ago 31 years ago. And his parents said this club when you turn 18 will be yours. So all his his path generationally was set for him. Team new absolutely no different. And and so he had been doing no different and and until our worlds intersected and. He said to me in that conversation i have never seen christians. Set foot inside this door. To. Jesus like i don't even know what that means wow. He said my experience is that christians have stood outside of the door hurling insult. Protesting. You know repent go to hell all those types of things i don't know what you're talking about like but he is curious. And he was so he was open to you guys coming in he didn't view that as a threat to his business or that the women were going to leave because they're going to meet you and then their lives are going to be changed she wasn't concerned about that. Well if he was he certainly had a bigger curiosity about it coming so you know we were in that club and that club is actually now it burned down and is no longer. It's no longer a club anymore but we were in that club for 7 years and we saw many women come to know the lord and including some of his family. He was scared of i guess. Oh my goodness oh that is amazing okay can you help all of us understand obviously strip clubs are a part of the the adult entertainment industry sex industry can you just give us. A bigger broader picture what is it what is it entail. Help us understand more about it. Yeah the adult entertainment industry encompasses strip clubs sex shops brothels massage parlor illegal massage parlors. It now includes online activity people being sold pornography it's the entire industry where. You know sex prevails and. I think one of the things about sex trafficking is in a lot of people don't know this is that 70 percent of sex trafficking victims. Willoughby traffic through a commercial sex industry establishment like a strip club so even though our ministry is is first and foremost to all of the women in darkness in the whole industry. Our ministry also rescues and. Reach women that are traffic as well so. That is what the industry is it's a very dark place. But it is the second largest globalized industry in the entire world. What's up first. The drug trade and i don't care for pharmaceutical. Yes yes exactly wow the second largest in the world. Sadly it's not surprising i mean it's so common what crosses the line from being a legal establishment legal work in the sex industry to illegal. At least in the united states. Sure well you know in most states prostitution is illegal. Strip clubs are legal entities. But illegal activity go on in strip clubs. But there are places that like. Illegal massage parlors that are advertising massage but are giving. A much different service. I am a legal service because prostitution like i said is illegal. But i think the the most common. You know. Difference again is that. And it's hard to tell like from the outside looking in. America has legalized a lot of. The stuff you know there's a. Pornography is is legal technically. But i think that it's the selling of someone's body for the gain of something else. That's where it crosses the line if you will in our society. Yeah apparently it crosses the line if it's in person but. Everything's happening online and it's legal and its people selling their bodies sexually all the time so it's kind of like a double standard like that doesn't totally make sense but. Oh my goodness that's so heartbreaking so in your experience with the many women that you've talked to. What would you say. What is their motivation for getting into this industry and i'm sure it varies from women who feel like it's their only option to women maybe who enjoy it and feel empowered by it i don't know women who are forced into it help us understand where these women are coming from. Yeah i think the most common thing i can say in this short amount of time is that. Stoneware. In the early years of a woman's life in this that is now in this industry. There was a violation of vulnerability that she had that was. The enemy you know. Stole from her through a traumatic experience that being sexual abuse 95% of women. That are in the adult entertainment industry have been sexually abused as children and so. You know people say all the time to me will they choose to do that. Well there's a lot of choices we don't actually understand we we may think that's the only option to choose. So there's some violation and some vulnerabilities that happen long time ago that lead women to this yes. I do hear all of the time that empowerment is one of the the things these women get into this industry for is they want to be empowered they want to take back power. Most of that is coming from where power was taken from them if you will yes and so that you know it's trauma a large part of the women getting into this industry is because of trauma. And as you interact with them do they seem happy. In this work or do they is it more of putting on a facade pretending like they're enjoying it but they aren't really when you get to their heart in conversation. Yeah i i have now worked with thousands of women in this industry by god's grace and and been able to help thousands of women. There is not one woman that i have come across that is truly genuinely happy. But also it take take a like take apart the adult entertainment industry let's be honest outside of christ how genuinely happy can you actually be. Because you you were living in darkness whether you're in the industry or not but you're outside of christ and so that joy where that happiness is manufactured by. External. So really the weather today. Did the women that are in the industry are really no different than anyone living out. But. I will say i get the privilege every week. I'm still going into the strip clubs i still serve women there every week. And i get to sit with them in the dressing room and. That's my favorite place to be in the club because i get. War of the authentic. And the woman that has to be somebody else down on the floor but in the dressing room she can be herself with us. And we get to pray with them we get to hear their stories we get to hear their stories of pain and. Of sorrow and we get to really limit with them and. And also the greatest thing is. We get to tell them. Who they were created to be in christ and who god has get you know how he's gifted them. And really draw that out and. So it's a special place to be. That is awesome and that just resonates with my heart so much because our passion here at girl defined obviously who we minister to is different but it's the same heart message of wanting women to understand that their creator whether you know him or not he is god he is good he is a god who made you to be a woman he has a beautiful plan for your womanhood and there is so much freedom and hope found in the gospel and in walking in the truth of your design as defined by god your creator and so it's just like hearing you talk like this is amazing but i want to go back to that point of you going to that first strip club because there's a lot of details me to fill in between that moment and where you're at today and ministry so that first experience it sounds like it was just it kind of blew you away what god did what happened next. Yeah so. At that moment in time was a like a kairos moment it was a moment in time that changed my life forever. I. Share with you i never anticipated or felt called to start a non-profit organization which is what we have today. What ended up happening from that point was we started showing up every single week with a home-cooked meal. And little by little. The women both trusted us and we gained that confidence and trust but we also started learning. What it was that these women were. Experiencing and so one by one women would. Find. That we were the safest place they could come they were raped or abused it domestic you know domestically abused they were homeless and so. The industry knows. It knows all of that addiction homelessness. Abused all of that and so these women started teaching me about what their life experience. Which then i in turn was able to share that with like know you know these women are in darkness and. They they need help like they need help and so this is how we can bring that and god started doing all of that and so in fast forward in 2009. We were serving over $150 women out of the clubs we were serving about 500 women in the clubs. And god was like you're going to like this is what i want you to do so i quit my job. I went faithfully full-time with know you know no salary nothing. And said is step. You know out in faith that this is what god was going to spend my life on so. That is that's how that happened but it took just showing up every week faithfully serving. And really i want to say this to you. Not expecting. Number one what i knew god could do but. Not expecting their response like i wasn't going so that they would respond necessarily to me. It was just like wow there's a lot of hurt and pain here and we've got a lot to overcome before we see the fruit and so. Sewing seeds and sewing kindness in god's kindness leaves people to repentance and that's why yes. You are building relationships with them you weren't just dropping in hey jesus loves you here's the gospel see you you were sticking around so you are building these deep relationships with these women week after week and what did you see what was god doing in the hearts of these women in your conversations with them. Yeah i mean instantly okay so. Famous term that they they deemed us. From like 6 weeks in was i walked into the club i had already been going there about 6 weeks. And this girl yells at the top of her lungs. The church ladies are here and so you know that began. I honestly a way to bridge this gap between them and the local church and so women started naturally saying well i want to go to church with you. And so really one of my first most beautiful stories that i had is of a woman who came to church with me. For months and decided to give her life to jesus. Got baptized. And she she. Fast forward that was in. 9 that that happened she is now a she works as a counselor in an addiction rehab for women and it's and she's sharing the gospel with him everyday like that's incredible right but those stories started happening. Way back then. Tell us some more i want to hear i want to hear what god did and is doing give us some more stories i just come to mind of conversations of women. What did god do. Yeah there was a woman named crystal who i love she's she's just one of the most beautiful women i've ever met but when i met her in the club she hated us like disdain would not talk to us would not look at us and every time i would offer her a plate or. Even come close to her she would just wave me on and so fast forward. Years literally years 4 years later. God pursued her in his timing she watched us but never talk to us. And that's one of the things i love to point out to is that people the world is watching like everyone's watching you as a christian and you don't know the influence you're having so fast forward four years after i'd known this woman. I'm at church and she comes up to me and says. I know you might not remember me and i immediately did. And i was shocked that she was there and she said i actually am here because. I need to ask for your forgiveness. What what do you need my forgiveness for and she said because i hated you. And i said. You know okay so what what changed and she said. She told me her story god started pursuing her and she said where did the church ladies go to church she didn't know because she wouldn't talk to us so she just started going on her own. And and and and god saved her and an opened her eyes and so she was coming back to say not only am i asking for forgiveness i now want to serve with your ministry. No not even at the strip club yeah it's amazing so she said i want to serve. So she said how can i serve your ministry and i said what do you want to do and she said i love to cook. So now that was in. I mean. 13 is. She has now been cooking the meals that we take to the strip club still in 2023 so 10 years know this woman has been serving our ministry yes. And it's it's absolutely incredible she's led a lot of people to the lord she's helped a lot of women that were in that life. All that she was just simply watching right watching. Did you ever circle back with her on her story and why for those four years she was so resistant to you and not wanting to talk to you or interact with you. Yeah she had had a very bad experience with the local church and with quote church ladies she had been hurt by christians in her past. She also came from a very very hard. Lots of abuse lots of domestic violence lots of addiction. And so when she saw us. It it was not only convicting for her but it was also hurtful she was like those people have hurt me. And. She kind of clumped all of us together and it was through her watching of us. But she was like. Well they keep showing up and they're really nice and they've helped all these women i've watched them and and so. You know that god began to change that in her but yeah she had a really hard experience with the christian with christians in her past. Yeah okay that makes so much sense so the age of these women what is the age range. Well the average age of a woman in the industry is about 38 years old but we work with women from 18 all the way up to 70. What are the women who are 70 doing. Well most of them have been in this life their whole. A very quick story about that is i'm not a woman on she was 49 years old she had been in the club she had been sex trafficked as a child and when her traffic her died she didn't know where to turn so she went into the the strip clubs. She was kept in that darkness. Until she met us and on her 50th birthday we brought her a birthday cake to the strip club. And we wanted to celebrate her life. That god had not only she she wasn't a christian yet not only had spared her. Is she still alive. But also that we now are in her life and so we are celebrating her birthday 50th birthday candles. She gave her life to jesus and left the industry and has never looked back but there was one thing that she always says to me. This is what changed it for me. She said for 50 years and no one told me i had any other choice. And you looked at me and you said. You have a choice today. And she said when when you said that. I was like i'm choosing jesus and i'm choosing to. And so it was. Another pivotal moment in her life but yeah she you know. She works in the industry up until she was 50 the 70 year olds are like grandmas in the industry unfortunately they. You know they they still make money however they make it and they. Connect you know they they become like grandma's in that. Everyday there's hope every day that god gives you breath in your lungs there is hope and a choice. That's incredible i had no idea that women that were that old were still in the industry i mean it makes sense if that's all you know i just didn't know there was still a place for them that they would even be welcomed and not like okay kick him to the curb because you're past your prime and you're done but. Clearly they're still work that they're able to do. That's so sad but what an amazing testimony that gave me chills when you said that about her story and her 50th birthday and the choice. Like it's like you're offering them there is a different path and they've never. That takes a lot of courage to because if that's all you've ever known. Did you find that the women were was there i don't know some fear in leaving everything. Oh absolutely i mean it's very. I told the woman that i serve and that our ministry serves they are some of the most courageous women i've ever met in my life. Because there are choices that we as christians. Living very comfortable lives need to make every day and we don't because. It's going to. It is scary it's going to burn in us but women who have no nothing but. Darkness. Just survival are taking steps of faith to say i don't know what this is all about i don't even know what it's going to look like i don't even know where i'm going to go but i'm going to step out in faith and i'm going to follow. The lord and so that's where our ministry comes in though is we have built in south charlotte hope is in 10 cities in the in the country. And major cities and we have resource centers that have become community families. If you think about it it doesn't matter if they're 20 or they're 50 they have to rebuild their lives yes and so that's what we provide in our resource centers for women. When did you found scarlet hope tell us more about that and where the name came from too. So in 2009 i found it scarlet hope and it came out of just we were serving a lot of women people started like writing me checks to help and. The word got out what we were doing and what god was doing and. And my church came to me and said we want to help you get your 501 c3 i said 501 what no idea what you're talking about. And they said well we'll help you will pay for it will sponsor it you know all that. I walk down that path but during that process and this is where the name scarlett hope comes from and. I'll try to shorten the version of the story cuz it is a beautiful story it's one of the most again. Transformational moments in my life. But the guy that was doing her 5133 paperwork he said do you have a name for this ministry you do and i said. No actually i don't. And he said well what do you want to name it you've got to come up with something. So i said you're going to have to let me pray about that so on a sunday night i was. Bringing this before the lord i was doing my bible study. And i read i had already been in the industry now you know working with women and i had read in scripture. Where jesus was being beaten and and mocked. Bruised in the crown of thorns on his head and they put a scarlet robe on him and in that exact moment of time i. Pictured. Sharing with the women that jesus's blood. Bully covers. That in all of their shame and all of their. All of their pain like he fully did that on the cross for me and for them and so it was this beautiful moment where the hope. Is in the blood of christ it's not in the hope that they're going to get a new job that they're going to. Get cleaned up for society it's not any of that it's in the hope eternity eternal hope of jesus's blood that he died for them. And so so that was like i immediately told my husband the name of the minister is going to be scarlet hope. And he my husband is a branding consultant so he said let's think about that so i was like okay you know that's fine but i know i was like this also was not my idea. That was a sunday. I said but we're going to pray about it we're going to ask the lord to give us. Affirmation that this is what he wants fast forward the next thursday we go into the club or bringing a home-cooked meal. And i see a woman who was staggering in the you know out in the open staggering around she was fully clothed. So i didn't know if she was there for a job or i don't know who she was i've never seen her. I go over to her i asked her if she would like some food she quickly looks at me and she said. Is it does it cost money and i said no it's free and she said it's free. I said yes honey it's free and it's. You know it's free i'd love to get you some and she said she started crying and she said. Do you know why i'm up here i said i don't and she said because i have five children at home that have not eaten in a week. And someone told me i could come here and make money tonight. To buy groceries to feed my kids and i said. Will praise god you don't have to do that you met us like we can give you this food and we can help you out of here. Cheap proceeded to tell me that when she got to the club she didn't understand what it was. To dance in a club she just got no idea. So the owners the manager said you got to take off all your clothes and she didn't want to do it so he said go get drunk next door and come back and interview for us it's a long story short. Our paths intersected when she came back drunk. It took about less than 2 seconds for her to come over make herself a play you know we're serving her and my friend whispers in my ear. She's drunk you might want to like let's she might throw up. She's kind of like. The fast forward she looks at me without even missing a beat when she got her plate and she said will you pray with me. And we dropped to our knees in the middle of this club and she started as i i started praying and she took over. And she started crying out to the lord in a way that i had never heard desperation before. In her prayer she kept saying god i now have hope like you've given me this plate of food you i have hope now. And i was like this is exactly why we come here is for this moment in time. Again this had nothing to do at the time with the name i just was like this is yes. The manager in the process of all this can you imagine this is going on in a strip club imagine this like what are the people around you thinking for one they're like glancing over like what there's like a prayer session going on in the middle of the strip club exactly girl and this is not the only time that's happened but the dj had turned down the music the lights had come up. And i'm thinking we're getting kicked out of here this is the last time we're ever going to be able to be in here. So. Do your thing you know and so. The owner comes over to her and says. This isn't a good fit you are you're not going to work here. And she said well that's okay you know they're going to help me i shouldn't work here anyways. So he had called her the law was if a woman was drunk in in the club the law was the owner had to call her a cab she was not allowed to leave the property without. Was she at this moment in time i don't know how to describe this to you other than a miracle she was not she was sober-minded after we prayed. And she was very clear we spoke about jesus and we and god was just really. Speaking through me and using my team to gather up the food for her and all that. So we go out to the cab and we put her in the cab and in the back of the cab we're all standing there me and. I don't even know your name. And she smiles at me and she said my name is scarlett. No way. And i will tell you that. And i still to this day i get really emotional about it because. In that moment. I was standing on holy ground. Add a strip club nonetheless. In the darkest mercedes place in our city. And god was there. And he was saying this is what. This is what i'm doing. And so all i had to do was show up and join him and what he was already doing and and so that's the name of scarlet hope i love that that is such a beautiful story and it is it nails it perfectly the whole time you were talking i'm thinking about jesus and how he was the one. Touching the the untouchable the unclean talking to the women that the religious leaders couldn't imagine talking to because they were damaged goods you know their lifestyle wasn't something that they could even associate with and yet here is jesus letting women like that wash his feet loving them. Showing them that they have value and purpose that they have worth in him that they aren't defined by their sin but can find redemption and be washed clean and can walk a new path because of what he offers it's just amazing it is it's the hands and feet of jesus it is ministering to women and not calling them like you said to a better lifestyle to cleaning up their excuse me to cleaning up their act or you know getting it together even getting a job being functional but if it's calling them to christ and to the transforming work that he offers through his blood to forgive every single one of us you know i think it's easy. Is to fall into this mindset of oh there are you know the sexually impure the impure people and then those of us who are maybe a little more pure but when we look at the gospel when we look at the truth and the reality of sin every single one of us is broken every single one of us is sexually broken to not a single one of us is pure that is why jesus died to cover us with his purity to forgive our sins by his blood and his work on the cross and so that this is a message that every single one of us need day in and day out but how powerful to see. Through testimonies in the lives of these women in such a powerful and just like tangible way. You have said there is. All of our. Put jesus on the cross there's not a single bit of it that did not and so. I think that's where we can get off our judgemental. Hi horses and go you know what. I want to be used by god however. However he wants to use me and to whomever he wants to use me right yes yes how do women get involved women who want to join you in ministry i know you mentioned 10 cities what is scarlet hope do in those cities how do people get involved and what is ministry look like today. Yeah we have three parts to our mission we still do all of our outreaches we don't just go to strip clubs we reach women online we actually reached tens of thousands of women online with the hope of the gospel and what does that look like. Yeah so make it very short we have a text outreach platform that is a technology that actually allows us. To find women who are being sold for sex online. And we reach out to them through text messaging and threw a. Platform that we use and we've been able to reach. And serve. Thousands of women i mean like 12,000 in one city i mean that we would wow one to one. Doing that would take. But doing that we can do that in a single. Night and so it's really cool how god's allowed us to have this technology to reach women that are being exploited online and then for the trafficking victims that are being sold online were able to to partner up with places that help rescue them. Wow and are you guys still going into strip clubs as well locally and doing meals what does that look like today. Yeah so that's how people can also get involved we do intense trainings our website scarlet hope.org has all of that on there and every city we are in. So we still serve home-cooked meals we also serve dessert gift. 2 strip clubs it's our tool in the door and so we do that in and like i said 10 major cities. And then we have resource centers around the country where women can come and start rebuilding their lives. I'm in the third part of our program is we actually if you want somebody to stop doing something you need to provide an alternative and because of the experiences that a lot of women in the industry have had. We provide a transitional job training program. And so we're offering gospel-centered career development for them and we're also offering job placement so it's a pretty cool program that we. Have developed and. I mean a lot of women have benefited from that so. It is that's ways you can get involved as well. And they just need to go to scarlett hope.org. San antonio one of those 10 cities or no. One of the biggest cities because we're like a big city with the small town feel and so i forget sometimes that such a big city. Okay so you wrote a book recently sharing so much more about this called outrageous obedience answering god's call to shine in the darkest of places tell us a little bit about your book. Yeah the book does capture this calling that god has put on all of our lives to be obedient to him. And to the great commission specifically. This is the darkness i'm called into right with the light of christ. But there is darkness all around us but also more than that there are things on an everyday basis. Where people need jesus they need hope they're looking for hope in all the wrong places. How do we as women step into that and be obedient to every little thing the holy spirit is calling us to do that could be at a grocery store your friend a friendship or whatever. And the book is really about how to overcome the fears the doubt and the. The things you've gone through so that you can. Be obedient to the lord and what it is that god has called you to are gifted you for so that's what the book is about it's not just about my testimony it's really to help. Step into to their god-given calling. Oh that's awesome and i'm sure sometimes that stepping into includes doing it a little bit scared. Stepping forward in obedience out of faith. Yeah. In my experience. There is no. Master playbook for. A specific calling us and even in this like. Even no matter what god has called you to do. Because you are doing it it's unique to you right and so he's i don't believe he's going to give you all of the steps of the puzzle and he's not even looking for that he's looking for faith into one step at a time. And he will reveal the rest. But it is scary i mean it is what's happening yes i just have so much respect for you i'm so amazed just. So encouraged by the work that you're doing in these very dark places and just your bravery to follow god's call to be obedient to go to places that quite frankly even as i'm hearing your stories i'm like oh you know my heart is pounding a little like that's that's feels scary going into these places that are so unfamiliar to me and yet look at what god is doing look at what happens when you bring the hope of the gospel to women in a place that they would probably never expect to hear it and yet you're doing it through relationships through loving them through showing them christ by your actions and by your love and that is so powerful i know you said people can can connect with you by going to scarlett hope.org but are you personally on social media or anywhere else that people can connect with you. Yeah you can go i'm on instagram with rochelle starko or my website is also that rochelle starco and i'd love to connect with you know anybody that even has questions about how do i discover this. I'd love to talk more. Awesome rochelle thank you so much for coming on today and sharing your story and sharing the amazing work that god is doing through your ministry. Thank you for this time and just having me on here and and allowing me to share it's beautiful. Wow wow is all i can say. That was incredible the work that rochelle is doing the ministry that she started and the way they're bringing gospel hope to women in the sex industry is just absolutely incredible like what god is doing i mean i was brought so close to tears my eyes were moist multiple times as i was hearing her tell the stories about those women was that i mean that the woman with the birthday cake at 50 years old what an amazing incredible story our god is so good and isn't it encouraging to see him working as she was just describing to see the gospel the light of christ the hope of christ shining in some of the darkest places that you would never expect the gospel to be out of there it is and their god is in the midst of that doing his work in transforming hearts and bringing hope and truth through the power in the blood of christ incredible. Thanks for sticking with me to the end if you appreciated this conversation with rochelle if you appreciate the episodes that we've had on the girl to find show you appreciate how we take a bold stance in our culture today for god's truth seeking to share the word of god with in truth and love we don't shy away from the heart issues because we need to talk about it if we as christians don't unpack the hard issues from god's word then how are we going to know how to think about these things that look and how to follow christ and love others well in all areas of life. In society in relationships we need to be equipped and that's what we seek to do here at girl define so if you appreciate the work we're doing what you do a little tiny favor for us and go over to spotify or apple and leave us a five-star review it just says thank you in ways that words even can't but actually we love to read your reviews too but that five-star review helps to just expose our podcast to other women pushes it out into the algorithm it takes a couple seconds you know there are many people who do not like what we're doing here at girl define and so they come over and droves and try to sabotage our reviews by leaving one-star reviews and really negative comments so we need you sisterhood if you appreciate this to get over there and leave that five star review in that comment saying what you like about the show any other guests recommendations that you would have anything in any episode in particular that you found encouraging we read those reviews and it is so encouraging us to hear from you and just to know that we're all in this together linking arms. Also like i mentioned in the intro if you feel like man i don't have a really strong biblical understanding of sexuality of sex of intimacy i've you know i've been sentenced and i feel like that has has scarred me or me or to sort of my perspective of sex and i don't know how to get back to it biblically centered perspective than i encourage you to grab a copy of sex purity in the longings of a girl's heart or if you're struggling with something and you've never told anyone whatever it may be your walking with a friend through something you will find so much encouragement and equipping in the truth of god's word is we unpack it regarding our sexuality specifically for women in that book i have my own journey has her own journey we share each of our struggles our sins how god has helped us in this area a single women and now in our marriage is and so i hope you'll grow a copy and be super encouraged by it as well sex period and the longings of a girl's heart you can get it pretty much anywhere. Okay come hang out with us we love to hear from you over on instagram at girl defined that's where we chat more about these episodes and keep the conversation going i can't wait to see you over there. 