There's a prominent male figure in the conservative movement who made some comments about pornography that caused quite the stir up and a lot of people gave their opinions he went on to share some follow-up thoughts that were still kind of confusing and so we decided let's talk about it i invited my husband dave on to have this conversation with us to bring a man's perspective he has a lot of great thoughts and so i'm excited if you are interested in understanding kind of a male perspective on this whole topic then you're going to really enjoy today's conversation let's jump in what's up y'all it's bethany and dave here and i'm really excited the other week there was a comment made like i said by a prominent figure within the conservative movement about pornography that caused quite the stir up. And i don't know i think i sent you the clip. I don't know how we both came across it yeah and then you just texted me like a bunch of thoughts you had and so i went live on instagram on the girl to find instagram and you said i could read your thoughts live. And a bunch of you were like how can we get those thoughts like you have bullet points of what dave shared it really resonated with. With you and so i asked david i was like hey can we make this more permanent like your thoughts can we share him somewhere so that more people can hear them and you said yes so here we are. Making a big deal about how these are my thoughts currently at the moment. I don't know if in the injury you said a man's perspective. Set an alarm for 11:00 p.m.. They're not always the exact same but i think that it's you know pornography is such a. It's so apart of our culture even though i have no more people are talking about it. Christian secular people are talking about pornography and. Whether it's good or not beneficial or not and i don't think we've ever had a conversation on the girl to find podcast where we brought a man on to talk specifically about pornography so i think this is the first. Thank you so do you think. Why do you think it's becoming such a. Conservative christians that are talking about porn these days it's it's a whole ethical conversation. There's the question of a couple things the question of the industry itself in the incentive structures that comprise that industry and the market that's created and. What's your contributing to if. But then there's the question of whether or not it is beneficial or. Moral or immoral or immoral. For personal consumption i don't even know what all those means tomorrow. Is it alright to do. Or is it just not right or wrong. Yeah totally i mean obviously. Girl defined comes from a christian worldview we. I have talked a lot about like kind of like what we believe the bible has to say about pornography or lust or whatever you know all of that so we have created episodes more specifically on that and we take a deep dive into that in our book sexuality and the longings of a girl's heart that's a christian and i wrote together but i think it's really cool the points you brought up and so they're different than what kristen and i have shared and a lot of them are just like talking points that you could use to communicate with or to think through without necessarily coming from a christian worldview which is really interesting because like you were saying it is a topic that's becoming more relevant and i mean i've had conversations with people who are not christians who are not religious other women on even on the podcast. Against using pornography in your marriage or as a single and they're basically like yeah they don't even talk about all the research behind it they're like oh yeah we just know like we know it now in 2023 you know when this podcast is being recorded we know pornography basically doesn't have any good uses and they're just saying that as like. A secular like not coming from a christian perspective i mean i think some of the research like as far as it having been out for a while now and people being able to. I don't know like see the results of it i think that has something to do with it the impact on people's lives yeah that enough time has gone by yeah i've seen a lot of. Guys talking about in the impact it has on. Their sex lives in the impact it has on. You know the expectations they come to a sexual relationship with. As well as impeding. Their ability. Get a bunch of stuff done in their life or build businesses or do you know so there's a lot of conversation around. The benefits i would almost i would almost say a lot of the conversation i'm hearing is more like is it harmful. You know if it's not harmful and you like it. You know do what you like. I think that. A lot of the question now for many people many men that i'm hearing. Is is this going to be bad for me. As well as the question of. Is this. Harmful to the people that are being. Particularly christian or conservative. Is this actually beneficial for my own life or my goals for my sex life. What's the general consensus with what you listen to what i listen to. The general consensus i think is. In combination with. Masturbation. As a kind of tension release valve. Is a largely. It's not the most helpful. And actually developing yourself as a man and doing the things in the world being successful whatever you think about. Financial business. Relational success. It seems like there's a lot of conversation around how. Masturbating with porn. You know the. Tension release. Style. Not so helpful yeah. That's it since i'm getting i'm not saying one way or another. You know as a christian obviously it's not simply does this benefit me and make me successful. Or not. Or is this harmful or not it's it's more. What is right you know yeah so. I think that was the crux of what. Why people were kind of upset with dennis prager. Was because he was not super solid. I'm not trying to think. Saying you know if his initial comments. If corn is being used. In lieu of your spouse then it's bad. Or it's awful yeah but if it's being used in addition to your spouse then it's not awful those are those are his original comments or something that's what i'm created people that's what people are like what and then he sounds like he. Doesn't love how that came out and he's done a lot to try to clarify what he means. So then the second thing that. That struck me. Was his. Conceptualization of the internal world as he calls it your internal world. Versus. Your behavior. So he makes a distinction between what goes on inside. And what you actually act on and he says that in judaism it's a behaviorist religion so. She would say he says that judaism says is that what matters is your behavior. Not necessarily the internal thoughts that you're having. So i think when he clarified he made the big distinction there that was more important then he talks a lot about how christians and him disagree on that yeah because jesus jesus says if you look on a woman with lust in your heart you committed adultery. Already in your heart. He's a covet you know the difference there's a big difference between lust and covet. In a lust being this idea of. He also doesn't make a distinction which many christians make a distinction between sexual desire. And lust so what i've heard is christians will say. You know sexual desire is sort of that initial attraction you can't control. And lust is what you do with that. Which i'm not 100% sure. How that all works i know they're growing up i had an enormous amount of confusion as to. Where that line was and if you really start to think about it it's like okay what kind of response time. Do you do you need to have is it like an initial like no get that thought out of here or is it like. Awareness of the thought moving up i just think that. A lot of a lot of christians conservative christians seem to have it worked out. And. I think. Dennis prager says he doesn't see a distinction so much between lust and sexual desire. I'm actually of all the points he made i'm actually more inclined to be. Friendly towards that even though i haven't quite. Landed does that make sense what are you what are your thoughts on that what do you think we just had a whole conversation. Like sexual fantasy lost as married women and that was super you know it actually brought up a lot of conversation on the girl to find podcast because like on our instagram and stuff. Because we were talking about how it's true you don't just like when you get married when you're single whatever but you don't you're not like a. I just think what do you do with that you know. Do you go into that and be like oh this is nice and i imagine a future with this person who i'm going to start to build this for women like an emotional relationship with this person i'm going to. But just like what do you do with that i don't know i mean it's hard because. I don't think we have to be ashamed of that but i think. That we just have to be aware that we are that way and be careful without. Going down the road. What do you think yeah. That's interesting. I definitely think that they're. I think that. What do i. I think that we tend to focus on that i think we tend to focus on what sin and what's not. Compared to. A more holistic view of our sexuality as a force an energy that we can actually direct and develop an energy and energy absolutely. Okay so do you think it's okay to like is it okay for me to be like. Oh i see you know an attractive man running let me think about that i mean. Well between the time that you say let me think about that yummy and to see him what's happening. I think. Hey if you feel that attraction. I feel that attraction. At what point is it like becoming. Let me think about having sex with that man. You know that's like. In my in my. You know internal world experience. A lot of my own. Thoughts about an attractive. Gmail. Are not. Have not been thinking through sexual act yeah well same and yet and yet at the same time. How if you're thinking of their beauty or you're looking at. Aspects of their body for example. Appreciating the beauty of that. There's a question of is that. Is that. Reducing them. There's something that's simply feeding something inside you. So i think that's really important. What are we treating each other in our life but. I also. I think that the line at least in my mind the line has been very blurry. Between. That appreciation of someone's beauty. And physical beauty. Personality even. And all of that together and. And then taking them to bed in your mind and i think that i think that that. I think that there's a lot in between those two and i'm more interested in what's happening between those two okay. And i'm interested in. The development of the hourly directing our sexuality i see our sexuality as something that from. Puberty onward or even earlier onward it's like this is something that is developing and this is something that. It's not simply a drive it is part of being human. Yaman sexuality is not animal sexuality like animals we have a prefrontal cortex. Aspect total integral aspect to who we are. And i think that that kind of ties into where my thoughts are coming from yeah. I think it's we've had a lot of conversation and then we'll get into your points cuz your points are so good they really clear up like so much of what we're talking about but i think that it's been interesting to talk about you growing up as like a teen boy into your early twenties and just the struggle you felt of. I mean you can clarify but like what you've shared with me is like you finding yourself attractive or thinking about a girl and being like oh my goodness i'm sitting i'm feeling so much guilt and shame over that we're having a physical response yeah and. And wondering if. You are so disconnected. My anxiety is over here the rest of my thoughts are over here my body's over here and. Fairness so separated there was. To. Filled with confusion and actually to the point where eventually as a young. Listen to my early twenties. Conversations with other guys had multiple conversations trying to figure out what's normal and what's what's sin and what's not and and it took it took a lot of those conversations. If you're a parent you know be proactive yeah which are you know my parents were. We're proactive to a point but i think that they're just was still a lot of confusion. I mean we have a son and a daughter. And. There are so many great resources now we attended a little seminar i think it's the birds and the bees who puts it out i'll link some stuff if your parents we have some books that we've gotten that we both agreed with baby and they're just simple like age-appropriate. Conversations ways that you can start to bring up this you know these conversations i mean simple stuff like using anatomically correct language about with your kids basic things like that. That are so helpful in many ways so yeah. Yeah there's there's a lot we could go down as far as that goes but when i when we have conversations about that it makes me sad to think of you that's like a young man struggling with so much anxiety when. God created us a sexual beings and it's a good and beautiful thing and there is right context for it and he does have a good plan for it and they're struggling so much because there's just confusion between the body and the mind and all of that. Her book i think love thy body helps clear up a lot of this sort of thing how christians have separated the mind from the body and that book i think is really helpful with. I'm packing some of this even though she goes into a lot of other conversations that's been super helpful for me i just started reading her books they didn't leonardo. And i've been telling dave i'm like this book is blowing my mind it's just. You know so if you come from you know you have a lot of confusion. Leonardo is like. Where have i been all my life i'm so excited to finish it and i i recommend it because i'm such a fan of me and see if you're seeing even though i haven't finished it i just i have been a huge fan of pretty much everything i've come across of hers so anyway it's one of the things she talks about is one of the main things she talks about is sort of the development of that. Mind body split and that is not just a christian thing it's a cultural it's a cultural thing it's a modernist. Reno project kind of thing. And i think that a lot of. A lot of issues have arisen. In our culture and then in our subcultures christian subcultures etcetera because we have conceptualized the body and the in the mind is so separate and the body is sort of like. Not a christian and and that our. What really matters is our beliefs what really matters is our internal world. You know so where is other other. Understandings would be like the body is is where it's at. And you know. Our understanding. Sure our culture has largely been. Responding this way. But as long as you're mine you know is is this way then. It's okay it was a very it was still a very important yeah yeah it's interesting. About. I haven't thought about women using pork from the perspective of. A man viewing pornography and your thoughts as one man so i talked about in these thoughts i talked about some. Possible. Causes these aren't the only reasons why i got to be looking. But they are sort of what came to my mind okay. All right the first one is porn consumption is as a symptom of a deeper problem. Porn consumption is often a symptom of a lack of self-direction rarely is a compulsive porn habit simply result of a guy looking for variety. More often it is a stress response as he is unable to manage his internalized rage. This self-directed anger manifests as compulsive habits and procrastination. Much of 4 news happens in tandem with procrastination which is rooted in a sense of masculine powerlessness the more man does not move out into the world with his healthy god-given masculine energy. The more he will be attacked to attack attracted to compulsive behavior porn drink etcetera. Can suffer the loop of shame that follows his sense of powerlessness will reinforce his compulsion. Which in turn will reinforce his sense of powerlessness. I like that okay the second one is do you want to talk about them as we go or just kind of. Fly. Let's see what do you think we'll figure it out right now. Yeah so the first one the first ideas basically about self-direction that oftentimes this habit it's like i need to i need this thing to kind of help relax me or else it's a symptom like. You might hate yourself so disappointed and. And so you can actually use. Those internal cues actually they can become a gift to tell you something about yourself i think that we often look at the symptoms if you don't do it. The underlying problem you're just going to replace that yeah. Play something else exactly. The hunger we don't really address the hunger so much we address more. The thing that makes people feel uncomfortable. Call my husband's looking up for my wife's looking it for we just wanted to make us feel insecure don't stop doing that what what if that hunger is now going to be satiated by. Something else that doesn't make us feel insecure but we haven't addressed that so it's like thinking through what is what's deeper going on here what's driving this what's rather than just looking at the surface i know that's so hard like thinking from a woman's perspective like we just want this thing gone but that's not helpful tension management this is actually a new one. This was not from. Play the original list tension management so many of us view our sexuality as a drive that needs to be satisfied to us it's about a cycle of tension and release tension builds and then seeks a release. Conceptualizing our sexuality this way will often feel angry or resentful if our needs. Art being met either because we don't have a partner or worse the partner we do have is sexually unavailable. This raises the likelihood that we will feel justified in seeking release elsewhere this isn't necessarily wrong but it's not the only way to view things i like the idea of taking the concept of tension and using it more productively tension. Is one of our most valuable assets but much of the time we sell ourselves short by seeking release rather than directing that tension as an energy when you think about tension as energy you begin to get a sense for how it can change form. When i feel tension in my body or become aware of heightened sexual fantasy in my brain. One helpful approach is to use that energy to create a gift for others that i read this in a book. This can help turn an inward focus egotism into an outward focus blessing for others watch the dishes mow the lawn etcetera etcetera. You may find both a sense of ease as well as a heightened sense of agency and power rather than always seeking tension release expand your capacity for feeling it. Moving at managing it and creating something with it or like that i've heard. Dr julie slattery talk about some of that she was talking more in the context of single people but a lot of it is like. Okay you like attention and then you want to do something with it like you know so you have that sexual release rather than exactly what you're describing to use it for good go out and give in port out and use it to like. Yeah i don't i mean. This this i have found to be. Really cool just as a mindset. Because it takes you out of this whole idea of i'm a slave to. To you know my feeling of tension so before you know as a conservative christian before getting married it's like. Take cold showers and do the stuff and what you're trying to do is like. Relax bring down this time right. And even though that can be awesome and helpful. As a way to kind of. I like to do that i find a lot of. I like that but used to be. As a way to escape tension not as a way to use or manage that yeah and and because of and so i love this mindset because. It becomes like. Looks like it like a power that you have. You can actually go and do something with this and actually have that energy sort of embody it you know. Is one of the reasons i like yoga. Channel 2 news because because because you're you're learning how to be in the body. And and controlled. And and meeting your edge and get and you know. I love the the combination between the breath work and the movement. If you think of yourself as sort of a box you're sort of expanding that box you're expanding your capacity for that and by the way. Tension exists in a relationship as well. And is one of the super powers of the relationship is a healthy management of tension knot. Not getting rid of the attention. You know anger anger and neuroticism are very are very they have a relationship you know they're very close together. An emotionally so don't be too eager to to ease the anger of your spouse you might find that. You know it gets better. I read that know i heard that from from another. Do you have any thoughts on any of them i'm cracking up because i'm just like you know i know some people have very strong opinions of beliefs about certain things about yoga i just crack up in my head i'm like honestly it's like i appreciate people who can take. With me. Okay the third one ego neediness this is a short one much sexual fantasy centers around a lover who is so completely turned on by us that he or she just can't keep their body away. Are egotism longs for someone who won't just love us but will become obsessed with us this reveals to us a deep sense of self-centered worthlessness that we seek to constantly mass by seeking validation from people even if it's in the world of our fantasy awareness of this deeply felt longing for enoughness is a gift that can lead us to focus on the cracks we feel in our identity know i don't know. That's just me. You know but you know that's. Yeah that's definitely something where it's. It's like. Awareness of what's happening inside and maybe. Where is rooted. Can lead us to actually say okay maybe i need. Baby i hate myself maybe i am angry. And that rage is is. Constantly moving me to try to seek validation even if i say i can't get it from the people in my life so i'm going to turn to this world and i'm going to imagine this beautiful. Intimacy yeah there's no intimacy there's just. I'm able to kind of think myself into. Exactly. Okay the next one is this comes from one of things breaker said which was. Men need variety because men need variety okay. First i would just like to say maybe men aren't the only ones who want variety. Wouldn't want to say that that if men want variety women don't want variety i just want you know. I'm about to say some things to. The kind of. I have some thoughts about that yeah i'm just going to say in the service of egalitarianism you know. If a man wants variety doesn't a woman also want some variety here's the interesting part though like in our talk on fantasy and sexual fantasy that we just had on the previous episode of the girl define show we were talking about how. A lot of the sexual fantasies are about other men so. Women emotionally oftentimes. All right. So the men need variety. To speak of a marriage as not providing the variety of man wants is to place the blame onto the woman for not being enough rather than holding the man responsible for how he is managing his sexual energy and desire. It also implies that sex is a superficial sensory animalistic act and completely misses the fact that for humans. Sex is just as much a collection of meanings as it is a collection of physical actions. The same touch in the same place can have an infinite number of meanings fundamentally altering the sexual experience for both involved. It's often times when we talked about variety we mean different bodies or different positions or different touch or something like that it's like the same touch can mean really. Yes and learn to be multi-meaning. Multi multi meaning in your sexuality you don't you know oftentimes we only we know only know how to think of it under yes. Yeah that's really mostly all i have to say i'm driving so variety is infinite when meaning is infinite well and he if you're coming from like a evolutionary perspective of like evolved animals which is kind of what. Yeah so there was a generation of sex. Researchers masters and johnson who who basically. Put forward this idea which was probably better than the last idea. In our culture but it was basically sex is a natural function. And they really went more towards the physical sex is a natural function of these people came from urology section is a natural function it's a physical. Saying that. They were trying to be positive they were trying to be sex positive. But a lot of what that mindset. Tended to miss was the prefrontal cortex and the fact that for humans sex is not like it is for animals and that the meaning that is created. With human sexuality. Is unique. And so when it comes to our thinking about sex it really should be informed not simply by sex as a natural function but as sex as a meaning-making. Endeavor so i wanted to read this quote i don't know if you agree with that but i really liked it dale partridge he said men are worried that marriage will leave them with only one woman for the rest of their lives that's not true i fell in love with a 19 year old rock climber and married a 20 year old dog groomer started a family with a 24 year old mother then built a farm with a 30-year-old homemaker today i'm married to a 33-year old woman who has joyfully endured four babies three miscarriages in a chronically ill husband if your mind is healthy you'll never get tired of one woman you'll actually become overwhelmed with how many beautiful versions of her you get to marry over the years don't say no to marriage say yes and keep saying yes until the day you die. Exactly that's another that's another dimension. Is the development of your long-term. You know spouse is a hole opens up a whole another variety of meanings amazing all right the next one is intimacy intolerance now we're talking again about. Causes of of compulsive pornos. What are the main things that make sex boring is that one or both partners are intimacy intolerant. They may take off all their clothes and perform physically sexual acts but never really truly reveal who they are in this state it's the easiest thing in the world to assume that the problem is lack of variety. This lets one or both partners off the hook. There's an ava max on. The partner so. This is kind of a scenario using a man as the one using porn for an example. For someone who has a husband who looks at porn it is the easiest thing in the world to make the issue all about how he is failing to be faithful in the relationship. It would be more productive for her to begin asking deeper questions about the nature of the relationship. Porn use doesn't require intimacy it is possible that neither partner wants to truly reveal themselves to the other and when her husband has a porn problem it offers the wife a convenient way to obfuscate or own intolerance for intimacy by making it about a man's problem. Everyone's sin and struggles their responsible for 1000% so i don't like. I'll have some i was just yeah. So yeah so what do you think. Well yeah i agree i think it's easy whoever has whatever is considered like the bigger problem everything gets focused on them when. There could be a lot of issues and on both sides and we're just not willing to address them but i think that. You know what i don't want people to hear it's like oh well cuz that's a woman we think a lot of us might think like well if i were just prettier if i were a better wife then he wouldn't struggle but that's not true what you're saying. Know what i'm saying is that. Is that intimacy. Is something that you build a tolerance for. Oftentimes. Porn use is a very overt when it's discovered it's a very overture. Red flag. But it's often used as you have sinned. So we're going to fix. Your sin problem. Rather than saying we have a relationship problem. And the relationship problem isn't. Is. It's not like. The sexual availability. Of the partner yeah you know you need to be more available sexual it's not that it's. A man needs to. Work through his issues. The woman can't work through those issues for him for sure but in the meantime. She can be asking questions. About. The relationship that they have both worked to construct and what i often the idea is i often hear in conservative circles is basically. It's the sense that it's. Whoever's been whoever is the one who's not using porn is basically the innocent one yes and i think in a lot of ways and this leads to my final my final bonus bonus point. These last two points are about the more about the partner. Can a response once porn is discovered this is a funny thing between us really like husband and wife he always says partner in so many people do that i love and respect but i just think it's hilarious cuz every time i hear the word partner and like me well that's fine yeah so it's. It's like it would be beneficial for both people to go to counseling together to get help and then just send them to counseling you know this is a little tricky yeah so the man is going towards porn. That is what i said is basically this is often a. A problem that's a symptom rooted in something deeper. Oftentimes. Couples. Often times couples are not well matched in the sense that there's one abuser. Right or one person who's particularly bad. But in a lot of cases couples actually. Are pretty well matched they find someone you tend to marry someone sort of at your level of. Emotional development roughly. And so. So that means that if a man has emotional issues. That are underlying. And that are manifesting in porn use the chances are just from a family systems perspective. The woman actually probably has issues it might not be porn but buy me something else so for example i'll share the same thing okay and again this is controversial yeah this is controversial. I mean it to be. You know equal. Like equal. Google responsibility not not to take responsibility for the other person but to take responsibility for yourself often times when the other person has a problem i don't take responsibility for me yes and that's what i'm saying i'm not saying take responsibility for him. Not at all like a million years not at all because there are going to be people women who are listening who are like you know. And maybe they or their husband specifically have a sexual addiction of some sort i'll link to a lady who specifically deals with. Like sexual trauma sexual addiction in relationships you can literally help you from day one of like discovery of this her name is bonnie burns and she runs a whole ministry for this strong wives is the name of her ministry she is devoted her life to this her and her husband have a whole story with this and so they have done. A ton of work to find healing and grow their marriage and grow their themselves individually and it's really cool to see them do that so if you want someone who has like really you know. Is much older and wiser than us in this area. Because i just want to make sure that we point you in a direction if you're like where do i go to find some help with this for me and my husband. See this is great that i'm not the only one i'm not the only one giving thoughts cuz these are i do want the balance but i'm just sharing yes this is what i think this is what can happen all right off in a woman uses her children. As a way to satisfy her neediness. Men can totally do this too. This is psychologically damaging for the children. So take a scenario where the husband manages anxiety through porn. And a wife managers her anxiety through her children. Which behavior is more damaging which is worse for the children. They may be equally destructive these behaviors may be equally destructive but say the man gets found out. Say he begins working on his porn issue is the woman's destructive behavior ever found out. Not always but people are often very well matched so it's not it doesn't always mean that she's going to have an issue if he has an. People are often very well matched. We tend to marry a person at or around our own level of dysfunction. That means if our spouse has a problem we probably have an equal problem with a different manifestation and all the caveats and everything. This is more like this is just more personally what. But i think i've observed you know in families where. So often you know the man is sort of portrayed as this monster who's who needs to be controlled. And. Egalitarian when it comes to capacity for sin that a husband is absolutely a man is absolutely capable of all kinds of sin. But a woman is also 100% capable of all kinds of sin too and. Just because things don't fly under the radar culturally. In other words you know the husband you might find out the the husband's porn issue. You might not find out about how the mother was defusing her anxiety and triangulating. These are potentialities these are not. These are not. It's a simple word what am i thinking these are not guarantees so it's not like oh he has a porn issue therefore she also has an equal and opposite issue you know it's not like that but it's to say like. These things tend to be complicated and oftentimes are cultural narratives within and without of the church. Often miss. A lot of these dynamics so think in terms of relationships and terms of the system and then all of a sudden. Change is reconceptualize from just autonomous individuals need to work out their issues. And it starts to open up some possibilities for ways of viewing the situation. Conservative christian circles with submission being taken to wrong and unhealthy levels there have been women who have been in. Very difficult and traumatic relationships and didn't have a voice didn't. The best thing to do is to go get to help no matter no matter what the level like trying to work things out on your own i would not be a fan of like even if you don't think it's that big of a deal like find a counselor find a therapist go to your pastor like find someone you can talk to to get help i think that's going to be. The most helpful way to gain an honest look at what's actually going on yeah. Yeah they're just a lot of really awful messages that have been out there that's why i'm coming from a more kind of a egalitarian like. You know it's true that there are power dynamics at play in many many relationships and they often go with certain weird and subcultures conservative subcultures submission has been mangled into. So i say to whom it may concern. Yeah and i might not be you may concern well and i know of a great therapist couple. That you can hire tish header and her husband they do couples therapy together so i can link them again i mentioned bonnie burns and there are some great great professional counselors like that that i specifically know and. I don't even know where to go i think that would be really helpful. So at the end of the day at the end of the day your take on. It's a big problem. Yeah yeah in general it's a big problem. Yeah by tim mackey of the bible project and really just going into like you're trying to feed that satisfied feedback fire that hunger that wants to debase other people for your own selfishness you know that's that's a real problem yeah that's a real problem. I'm getting messages cuz we're on our recording platform and we're going to get kicked off in 5 minutes i'm getting messages i really appreciate you coming on and just sharing those thoughts this is definitely a different sort of conversation about porn and all of marriage and we've ever had on the girl to find show so those of you out there if you like it give it a five-star review if you want to have dave on again. Let us know you can also go to instagram account and leave a comment letting us know like hey i loved having you all together or if there are certain topics you want to. Can't wait to hear your thoughts and i will see you next week. Bye everybody. 