We are talking about how do you know if you have the gift of singleness and this is something that so many of you have asked us over the years some of you. What does god's word say about whether or not i have to get to singleness and how can i find out the answer to my question so today we're going to unpack that we're going to dive in we are going to share our own journeys from singleness to marriage that looks very different for each of us the things that we wrestle with we're going to dive into that and we are ultimately going to unpack that question and give you straightforward biblical name i want you to know that there is a complete video version of the podcast so you can see us actually talking this afternoon okay so this question about. Do i have to get this illness is something that we have been asked. Many times over the years and we haven't had we've had people comment like i scoured your books for answers and you know i just want more like i want to understand what the bible says and you know you have some people tell you like while you're just embrace that like wonderful and you can serve god more fully and deep in your heart like you and i really think by the end of this conversation. And i think at the end you're going to be asking a different question i don't think you're going to be asking do i have to get the singleness you're asking something else what you're going to discover through this conversation now you guys if you have not heard of our book love to find i just want you to know that we as we wrestled through our single years through. You getting married and then bethany not getting married much later you're going to hear something about that you've maybe heard our stories we share all about that and love to find and wanted to write a resource that honestly we wish that we would have had when we were younger when we were wrestling with a lot of these questions going through these seasons even into marriage wondering like how do i know if he's the one what should i look for it i'm getting this guy but there are problems is this a big deal is this not should i end it how do i go from the path of single news about that really helps me thrive and glorify god and not just like a holding pattern for another season for lasting love and satisfying relationship so if any of that struck a chord with you then i know you will be so encouraged by this resource you can grab the book you can listen to it on audiobook you can get the book you can rent it from your library we don't care how you get it we just want to get this book into your hands because we truly believe it will be life-changing for you as you navigate some of the biggest and most challenging questions that we often face which is romantic relationships and everything that has to do with that. He broke up with me and i was devastated because i thought i was going to marry him. It was a really hard time and it was at that point forward that i started having these questions like my life is not going the way that i want. This thing that god put upon you were basically okay you are chosen to be single forever and no matter no matter what you will never get married and bethany village i'm going to be single forever i'm literally going to be this old maid rocking on a rocking porch like with old fashion clothes like knitting my life away everyone's going to feel sorry for me this is just my. In this present moment. And i can still pray for and desire marriage like if we see in scripture that marriage is upheld is a beautiful thing a beautiful gift another gift but it's also okay to desire that but then was fully in the moment knowing i'm single right now if i can only ride and search on where he has me and i think for most single women that's supposed to be want to get to we want to get to the place of saying right now i mean looking back on my journey i would say i have some regret in that i did not have a perspective in my google news as much as i wish i would have had looking back now and i've grown and learned more about. The gift of singleness or the gift of marriage i think i really viewed it in my single years as okay i'm in this season just until i can get married like the whole point of this is to prepare for marriage like so i was reading all the marriage books and like preparing and that's not a bad thing it's great to be prepared but i don't think i saw the beauty in that season and embraced it as fully as i could have because i was just kind of like i just need to get ready for the next season and in my mind and i know some of you wrestle with that same feeling right now because i'm just waiting to get married and you know i can't wait for the season to be over the next season is going to be so much better the grass is always greener and you have in your mind that bullseye and that bullseye is marriage until you're struggling to even see the purpose you're struggling to even see that it has a value not to mention that it could be a gift i am just in the season to eventually get married and so for me looking back yeah i did get married a little bit younger than bethany i was 24 you know not like super super young like some of these little spring chickens but i wasn't like later either it kind of happened like earlier you know then some and i just remember like now looking back thinking man i wish i had had a more biblically grown up perspective of my singleness. I know listen to the podcast watching this video we are coming from many different places and i know because i've heard from you we've heard from you. If i don't have any desire for marriage or sex i must have the gift of singleness and while i will say that this is we don't get as many comments like this truly the majority of comments are i do like i want marriage and it feels like a curse that i'm not married but there are quite a few of you who do you feel this way i don't really desire marriage i have no desire for sex so i must have to get a single next and there's some confusion with that. What you. I just don't know what to do and i want to make sure that you know like we see you and we hear you and i think you know at the end of the day. The most important thing to think through if you are saying i don't have these desires one is to to consider okay is there a reason it has something happened in your life that has made marriage or sex or whatever undesirable did your parents have to go through a divorce was there something. I don't desire sex but what am i doing with my life am i actually. Christ. Even though we don't we don't want to get married we don't want to have sex but we need to be living every day fully for him another one of you said something along the lines of this and i think a lot of you will relate. If i have a strong desire for marriage i know god will give me this gift. And this is something that i have heard many of you say in person and. Basically if i have this desire that means god will give me this gift because if i you know if he wasn't going to give me this gift and he would take this desire away and you know what she should show. A large percentage of people do eventually get married like that's just a fact and so there is a chance you know we're talking about statistics that you will get married but i think the problem with this is assuming that you know god's timeline for you that if he has the gift of marriage in your future you are assuming it sounds like that you're going to have it soon and if it's not true then god is going to take this desire away or it's going to be completely gone. Longing to draw us into a closer relationship with him to draw us into a place where we're longing for something so much but he's helping us learn and grow that he is what we ultimately need and as we desire this thing this marriage is automatically going to give it to you he wants us to hold every area of our lives and i walked through this when it comes to biological children and my whole journey with having to surrender those open hands of things for this yes this is something the bible calls a very good gift but it's in your hands got ultimately and so my hands are open i'm trusting you i know you ultimately can satisfy me in ways that even these wonderful gifts can't you are the true need of my heart so desire doesn't automatically mean that we know god's will. Another comment about having the gift of singleness that i probably relate to the most from when i was single you said i'm afraid i will be single forever but i really want to get married or another one right below that says i don't want the gift of things i'm not here for it. You know i totally relate to that so much from when i was single and here is one of the things that i did i want to know if you can relate to this i would project all of the horrible things that we're going to happen in my future all my friends are going to get married i was going to feel sorry for me everyone's going to like have kids move on with their life and they were like. So i just want to encourage you to trust god. Trust in the lord with all your heart. And do not lean on your own understanding in all your ways acknowledge him and he will make your past straight and that can really be the cry of your heart that can be the prayer that you take to god every single day and thank god i want to trust you with my whole heart i know that you will direct my path today i'll take that stuff tomorrow you will show me each and every day where i should go if that includes marriage awesome if it doesn't awesome i'm not going to worry about that i don't know what the path looks like you know 10 miles down the road i only can see the light right now because i want to get some meat on the bones we're talking about paul is talking about and i think this is where a lot of her ideas come from like will paul seems very clear on where he stood and the gift that he had so i need to have that same confidence or. Confidence in singapore confidence in marriage like paul did and i think that's where it's coming from so here's what he said and first corinthians 7:39. I wish that all were as much as i myself am. But each has his own gift from god. 1 of one kind and one of another to the unmarried and the widows i say that it is good for them to remain single as i am. But if they cannot exercise self-control they should marry for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. A lot of conversations articles videos like this you know it's parked from but it's interesting because early on he says this is not a command this is this is just a concession like i'm just saying this that each has his own gift one of one kind and one of another and what are these two gifts that he's talking about. I love the author of christopher ash the way he puts it it's just a simple past to know which gift you have what he's talking about here he says i know which gift i have buy a simple task if i am married i have the gift of marriage if i am not married i have the gift of being unmarried and so what he's getting out here is what paul is saying there are two kinds of gifts one of one kind and one of the other but notice the key word there paul called both of them gifts he's not saying one is way better than the other you know whatever i think this is very simple way that we can refer to it someone said like you want to know if you have to get to know your ring finger. What is my purpose as a woman today as a christian woman and i think if we stop asking do i have to get something on this and we started saying asking how can i serve and glorify god today it helps us to get to the purpose of why we were even created as an image bearer and as we were talking i kept going back to like the gospel like jesus is a very purpose of why he came. To to live. So you can't answer that question like you're saying you don't know what the future holds you don't know what tomorrow 10 years i mean i think of our friend nancy the most. Inspirations for why we found a girl to find and nancy thought for sure that she was going to be single forever i mean she talks about this she's like i was single until you know my 50th birthday going to be single little did she know that god had marriage and for her future and so you might even be a little bit older when you're thinking yeah i'm pretty sure this is never going to happen the clock is ticking like my season of that is gone i can't even consider that you don't know what god has in store for you and so rather than holding anything with the best of like this is my forever you just have to open up those hands and surrender and say this is my right now i don't know what the future holds and so i can trust god and like you said him. We're getting after the idea that in the season of singleness and this is one of my regrets looking back is that i did and now especially being a mom of two very active voice home schooling married her family is so much going on and i see that my attention is very divided in a good way and that i'm taking care of so many people and so many things in my time is very spread out and i look back on my single years and i'm like i thought i was busy then are you getting me my biggest concern was like hanging out with my friends tonight. Okay like looking back i wish that i could be much more intentional and i love the way alistair begg puts this because he really helps describe the idea that in singleness there is a lot of potential like there's a lot of opportunity and a lot of undivided attention that i think a lot of christians completely waste because we don't view that season as a gift and something to be really like embracing wholeheartedly and so he says there may be some of us who are yet unwilling to accept that the reason that god has not provided us with the marriage for is because he hasn't mine a different gift that of undivided devotion to his work. If that is so then it may be time for our prayers to change it may be time to thank god for that gift and offer up our lives to him afresh even if the prospect seems lonely even if we are uncertain that we will ever enjoy it trusting that as they follows day he who shaped are very heart with all its longings and desires is able to satisfy us as no one else can. Single if you're really interested in this or you know someone close to you who is single and you're trying to think okay. Like how how can i change my perspective how can my heart change as i am listening to all of this and i think another very inspiring example someone that we can gain a lot of just. I don't know like a godly woman we can learn from is elisabeth elliot and i would encourage you if you haven't like. He is a woman who. Marriage. End up getting married a third time and so it's her heart though and her mind that is incredible and we actually pulled up a quote from something she said specifically about like this gift of singleness she said. I didn't realize there was such. Big cats yeah i think it was between. Her first and second marriage there was a big gap i mean we both had the privilege of meeting her yes and before she passed away it was awesome. Latest. I have learned that it is indeed a gift. Who knows the end from the beginning and once above all else to give us the gift of himself which ultimately she brings it back to the gospel and i think that is why she can have this perspective she was able to look back. You know and over the years of her life and see how god has such a unique such a specific plan for me where i literally have the gift of singing this because i was single for those years and then i went into the gift of marriage and then that was taken away and i went back into the gift of singing this then into the kitchen and it is hard to keep up with but her heart and her mindset was one that says ultimately the most important thing that my favorite give me himself and give me the opportunity to have a relationship with him about. Well i mean how can you make so much and go through so much i mean she lost her husband when she was literally serving on the mission field when he was serving on the mission field it's like god i'm doing everything for you and then you take this dream away i mean. There's only. How many parts of this. Day after day year after year to keep your eyes on jesus and live fully surrendered saying. You know i lost my husband but i'm still open to that if that's what you want and then surely god brought another one after losing that one god i trust you just like proverbs 3:5 and 6 does one step after another and then don't want another husband she wasn't desperate for husbands by any rate he was just testing that day after day and so i think that's such a beautiful reminder for us as women and if you if you're sitting here saying okay what what can i do to trust god today and the next day and the next day just one step at a time and that was the most important thing in my life so i think all of this comes back to like we said at the beginning not asking the question do i have the gift of every season and saying. How can i serve god with my life today. Weather in single whether i'm married and if you wake up tomorrow and you look down at that hand and you're single then you know today god i am called to serve you in my singleness that is the gift you have given me as hard as it is sometimes if you were as a gift card help me to remember that my ultimate purpose my ultimate calling is to build your kingdom not mine and to do it however you see fit and if you know god because you are sober and i am not that i can build your kingdom best right now serving others being undivided in my attention help me to do that i want that change my heart you know even crying my heart i don't have a hospital because it's a gift that i can give and sacrifice back on the altar of my life of worshiping you because ultimately that's my greatest purpose and i know you you should a little bit about this early on but i'm sure everybody would love to hear even more like how do you make that transition because. It's not an overnight thing and i know sometimes we like to just have a spiritual growth like i don't want this the next day like oh lord thank you but it's not always the case sometimes it can take months and years of like continuing to open up your hands continuing to say god help me to see this as a gift and your season of singleness i know at some point it's probably felt like it was stretching on and on 26th birthday 27th birthday 28th and 29th you know and like how did you get to that place. You are years but god wasn't taking you out of the gift of singleness when you were wanting it okay if that's any any thing if i have this desire and if i just picked up the face it will happen in my time i eventually did get married. I mean i will say that. Anymore. 10 years. Almost two days later things have changed okay so you had a wedding dress in your closet though. But there was no wedding to plan there was nobody else and you know honestly this is like before i got to the place of really. Really like trusting god and and getting to the place of really thriving i remember i was in a relationship a different one from the 20 you know when you're single longer you have more opportunity for life so i remember being i don't know like in my mid-20s or something and i knew deep in my heart and because the people around me were very kind to tell me this guy wasn't the greatest adoption for me but i was so afraid that he was like the last boat off the island or that he was you know like there wasn't going to be anyone else so i held on to that relationship. Be in a bad relationship or settle in certain areas of my life not live fully for christ because i'm just so desperate to not be in that place and i remember finally it was really that relationship that was the turning point for me of coming to this place of truly trusting god and really say god i want to live for you fully and completely and so this relationship really challenged me like. Or am i holding on to this because i'm scared of what could come you know and so once i was finally honest and i acknowledge that there were many red flags in the relationship all the people i loved around me weren't really supporting it and once i finally just said god i trust you and i can i can honestly acknowledge some of these issues. I was the one who was able to initiate the breakup and honestly it wasn't as bad as i thought it was going to be because i had a different outlook on life my perspective had changed things to god's amazing grace and mercy and what i thought would have been the worst days of my life ended up turning out to be some of the best so the years following that from that relationship until i ended up getting married i have such wonderful and beautiful memories of my singleness and yes i mean when my husband dave. I came into my life and i started noticing him i mean that made it hard because i'm like. So we have to be careful and even i think go to the lord and repentance regularly if we find our heart to drifting from loving god wholeheartedly to loving this idea of marriage so much that it has become everything we can think of we want to manipulate every situation to make it happen we're no longer worshiping god fully as we know he calls us to we're not loving him wholeheartedly. On a monthly basis or even a weekly basis until you see that growth and you see god changing your heart like you're talking about but early on there might need to be a lot of repentance and that's good because repentance brings about freedom from sin from bondage and were able to worship god more fully but there's a scripture that i kind of want to land on here and kind of end on because this brings so much hope for every single one of us no matter how much you know we're married right now but we're just talking about that reality and i know we have everything on instagram and i think we connected she lost her husband and we talked about it and you know like she's young you know like she's in her twenties people there were people in our church. We forgot that this life is so short although some days they feel so long this life is short it is temporal this isn't our end destination as believers we know we're living for one day when god will make all things new again and will be fully redeemed fully transformed we won't live with these longings in this brokenness because we will be made new 100% in christ living with him forever and so mark 12:25 gives us a glimpse of this this vision of the future that is to come this is your future that earthly marriage is only temporal because god created marriage ultimately to be a picture of the gospel of christ pursuing his bride the church that picture of the bride responding to the bridegroom it's a beautiful institution god created that we can enjoy and embrace and celebrate but ultimately it's a temporal picture it's a picture saying this is what is coming one day every single person whether you ever got married on the earth one day everybody will be unmarried in the physical sense but married as the collective bride of christ to the bridegroom jesus in heaven forever that means we'll live in perfect unity with christ in that beautiful intimate relationship with him as the bride collectively and that is just so beautiful. Say something that some of you might find you might find hope like i never get married this side of heaven i know i'm the right of christ and that has huge significance for the way we should live on earth but also significance for all of eternity and you might say that sounds so wonderful to some others are like what in the world did she talk about we talk about yes we talked about marriage and how all the things i just said the deep theological meaning behind this metaphor that is a physical reality but like i said yes it seems complicated but the point is that it's not forever and in heaven we will not be married like i don't know how many years because ultimately satisfied we won't need that relationship and our hearts will be so satisfied and so that is something that no matter what happens on this earth we can look forward to that day and in the meantime we can say that god who will one day i will be united to in the most perfect way she wants to walk with me and intimacy now on this earth and i think for each one of us are so much hope as we look forward to that day. I think the book that i would really encourage you to get and read and study there's actually a free like study guide really almost more like a devotional at the end of each chapter is our latest book not part of the plan trusting god with the twists and turns of your story and so you know if you don't know god if you don't have a deep relationship with him it's going to be so hard to trust him and not part of the plan is all about helping you to really know we're talking about and if you enjoy this episode if you're like. You've been digging into lately i'm a fan of the video also you know check it out on you so if you're not there please give us a review please leave us a comment please give us a thumbs up whatever form of. We need that because that spreads the word like seriously i'm touching things when you. The algorithm. We love you so much and we will travel next time. 